YOUR IPO WATCH SAKUMA EXPORTS LIMITED - NEUTRAL SAKUMA EXPORTS LIMITED IS OUT WITH ITS MAIDEN PUBLIC OFFERING. OVER AND ABOVE EQUITY SHARES, THE PUBLIC ISSUE ALSO CONSISTS OF REDEEMABLE PREFERENCE SHARES WITH OPTIONAL DETACHABLE TRADABLE WARRANTS. HERE’S TAKING A LOOK AT THE ISSUE DETAILS... Kavita Pandeti,Equity Analyst, FinanceInsights     Sakuma Exports Limited is engaged in the business of trading and export of commodities and merchandise domestically and in the international market. The company mainly focuses on the export of agro-based commodities. SEL made a modest beginning in the year 2000 – 01 with exports of red split lentils and fresh onions to Sri Lanka. Over the years, it increased its export product portfolio to include peanuts, peanuts in shell, brass items, sugar, wheat flour, soya bean meal, castor, etc. Over the years it has exported its products to various countries across the globe such as Italy, Poland, Holland, U K, Philippines, Indonesia, Japan, Belgium, Algeria, The United Arab Emirates, Arab Republic of Egypt, United States of America, etc. INDUSTRY PERSPECTIVE     India’s exports during the financial year April 2004 to March 2005 reached nearly US $ 80 billion, indicating a record growth of 21.72 per cent since last fiscal. With increasing urbanisation and change in eating patterns, consumption of agricultural products such as wheat and rice is expected to grow at 1.2 per cent and 0.8 per cent per annum respectively. According to the OECD projections, global consumption of vegetable oils is estimated to grow at 2.8 per cent in medium term, till 2009.     For the year April – March 2004-05, exports of agro-based commodities and allied products recorded a growth of 9.12 per cent. Major export items in this category which registered positive growth were cereals (27.45 per cent), pulses (68.53 per cent), tobacco (13.71 per cent), spices (16.19 per cent), nuts and seeds (18.97 per cent) and castor oil (56.73 per cent). PUBLIC ISSUE FUND UTILISATION The proceeds raised through the public issue will be utilised towards: Increasing the quantum of the company’s long-term working capital. Meeting general corporate expenses. Meeting public issue expenses. FINANCIALS In FY05, SEL reported sales of Rs 163 crore against Rs 91.5 crore in FY04. During the same period, it registered profits of Rs 1.36 crore as against 0.28 crore. In the first 5 months of FY06, it has clocked sales of Rs 78.5 crore and profits of Rs 1.67 crore.     RECOMMENDATION     The company mainly focuses on the trading and export of agro-based commodities which are largely dependent on the monsoons. In addition, it also faces immense competition from the other players due to low entry barriers. At an annualised EPS of Rs 2.5 the issue is priced 20x its expected earnings in FY06E. We hold a neutral view on the issue. IN BRIEF >> Sakuma Exports Limited is engaged in the business of trading and export of commodities and merchandise domestically and in the international market. >> India’s exports during the financial year April 2004 to March 2005 reached nearly US $ 80 billion, indicating a record growth of 21.72 per cent since last fiscal. >> For the year April – March 2004-05, exports of agro-based commodities and allied products recorded a growth of 9.12 per cent. >> The proceeds raised through the public issue will be partially utilised towards increasing the quantum of the company’s long-term working capital. >> In the first 5 months of FY06, SEL has clocked sales of Rs 78.5 crore and profits of Rs 1.67 crore. >> Besides being largely dependent on the monsoon, it also faces immense competition from the other players due to low entry barriers.
Nawapur goes on shopping spree By Viju B/TNN Nawapur: People from nearly 20 villages flooded the Nawapur market on Saturday, taking a break from the fear factor hanging over their heads.     The market was abuzz with activity as hordes of people made a beeline for vegetables, grains, earthen ware, water pots etc. Farmers were happy to sell potatoes, onions and cauliflowers at a slightly higher price as most people preferred a vegetarian fare.     This has benefited onion farmers like Kiran Valvi, who had brought 30 kilos of brinjal from his small farm in Navagaon. “Last week, I could sell it for Rs 3 per kilo. Today I am selling at Rs 5 per kilo,’’ he said. The other sector who benefited from bird flu scare are hoteliers. All the lodges were booked for the week as state officials and media persons swarmed the area.     The losses, of course, were reserved for the poultry farmers. It is estimated that Nawapur poultry industry alone incurred a direct loss of Rs 70 crore. Meanwhile, 94 poultry farmers were kept under observation as they had developed symptoms of bird flu in the last one week. “None of the farmers have bird flu, but we will keep them under observation for some more days,’’ said Dr Anmbalagan, CEO Nandurbar health division. Out of the 14 persons who were kept in the isolation ward at Nawapur hospital, three were discharged, he said.
TIMES FOOD GUIDE COMMUNITY CALLING Rashmi Uday Singh     If you are a Gujarati who is reading this, then immediately pat yourself on your back. The reason? For decades, you’ve been fuelling the Mumbai restaurant scene with your fat wallet and your unique palate. Did you know that a substantial number of restaurants select their menus, even sweeten their South Indian sambhar and North Indian makhanwalla just to ensure your custom? And why not? You and your community eat well and spend well! The latest to join the ranks to woo you is a smart, compact, neat little two-and-a-half month old eatery which sits next to ‘Parsi Dairy Farm’ on Princess Street. And here’s the best part: this pure vegetarian ‘Salt’ makes no pretenses at making an outright bid for your palate. It goes for the jugular, offers South Indian, Pizzas, Gujarati, Marwari, pao bhaji and chaat. Pastries, kulfi, rabdi, sugarcane juice. It even has a pizza named ‘thoda bahut Italian’. You can’t get more frank than that!     “What a choice there is?” ask the two lively and lovable cousins. Washington-based Dr Rekha Ginde is a highly successful doctor but still makes time to cook up magnificent meals for her cousin Nina Vasa. I not only zero in on the superb Gujarati food in Nina’s Peddar road home but trip out on her superb cheesecake too. The love and caring between the two sisters is palpable as they help me nibble through most of the menu. FIRST THE GOOD NEWS: Superb pricing. Nothing costs more than Rs 60. You can get a meal (eg. parathas, dal, gulab jamun, salad and dahi vada for Rs 60). Generous portions too. Vegetarians are assured of the pure stuff, eggless pastries too. All this in a neat, small, twin levelled space, enlivened with witty quotes and a large photo of ‘Old Bombay’. “After all, we serve Mumbai food here,” points out Paresh Makwana one of the partners.     Our recommendations? Go for the flavoursome, buttery pao bhaji (Rs 50), the stuffed, soft, paneer paratha meal (Rs 60). Even the basket chaat (Rs 40) is substantial and crunchy with dahi and sev and fruit. The Marwari dal batti (Rs 50) is tasty and well made while the gatta nu shaak (Rs 50) explodes with flavour. It also swims with oil! Wind up with the three flavours of the Millennium kulfi (Rs 40). Open through the day, it makes for an ideal meeting place. THE BAD NEWS Slow, confused service. We don’t get spoons, even though Nina keeps requesting for them. Some of the dishes do not make the grade at all, like the dry and tasteless ‘bruschetta with corn and cheese’, the plump base pizza ‘thoda bahut Italian’ with its grated cheddar cheese. And even though the pao bhaji is good, it is served without chopped onions. The dal batti is served without ghee. And the rice and peas of the ‘paneer peas rice’ (50) are undercooked and katcha. Okayish South Indian idli (Rs 25) and dosa. Remember: no alcohol here! And no parking too! MY VIEWS If you are based in the vicinity, then this is definitely a boon. As Nischal Shah on our neighbouring table points out, “I have been here three times and it’s very welcome because we don’t have anything like this in this area.” Pure vegetarian, wellpriced, generously-portioned fare served in cheerful, pleasant , air-conditioned surroundings. Bypass the ‘thoda bahut Italian’, stick to the Marwari, Gujarati, the parathas, bear with the service. How does the food compare to Swati snacks? Definitely not as inspired but the place is quieter. We don’t have to wait, we can chat away and I have a memorable afternoon. Will I go back? Not unless Rekha and Nina accompany me. FOOD LINE Wow! What fun it is to receive your letters, by post, like in the good old days. • Subhash Chandra is looking for a job in a hotel as a housekeeper and has written from Hoshiarpur. Please do call the Foodline if you have a vacancy for him. • Ulka Assir is looking for details of cooking classes in the Churchgate, Colaba area. She would also like the detailed address of Sulakshanan Arya cookery classes at Malad. If anyone knows please do call the Foodline. • Hitesh Anil Talreja is also interested in cooking classes. • A senior citizen based in Peddar road is looking for a cook. • Aditya catering offers pure veg marwari and gujarati tiffin services for offices and homes all over Mumbai. Very reasonable rates on daily or monthly basis. Call 26744553. • Farukh makes tasty fish and mutton biryani cutlet and kebab also makes carrot, dudhi, chiku halwa. Call 26285910.     Salt A 7 Chandra Mahal, 245 Princess street , Mumbai - 2. Ph 22015370. Open 9.30 am to midnight. RATING FOOD 2.75, SERVICE 2, AMBIENCE 2.75
Rain, hailstorm bleed MP, M’rashtra 48 People Killed, Extensive Damage To Rabi, Fruit Crops In Two States TIMES NEWS NETWORK Bhopal/Nashik/Jaipur: Incessant rains and hailstorms have killed at least 48 people and caused widespread damaged to rabi crops in Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra. While 43 deaths were reported from Madhya Pradesh in the past seven days, five died in Maharashtra on Friday.     Extensive damage to rabi and fruit crops in central and western India may incur heavy financial loses to farmers. The worst affected was Madhya Pradesh, where, according to chief minister Shivraj Singh Chauhan, 30 districts have faced the nature’s fury.     Though the extent of loss is yet to be assessed, Chauhan said the situation was critical in 1,500 villages with 2,172 houses damaged and 192 animals perished. “This is a crisis situation because the rains are still continuing. We need Central assistance immediately,’’ Chauhan said.     While he announced compensation for the losses of crops and livestock, he offered nothing to the families who lost their members because of the devastation.     Life was thrown out of gear in Nashik and five people died because of lightning in Jalgaon district of Maharashtra. Agencies reported extensive damage to mangoes and grape farms. Farmers who had stored their onion and wheat in the open, too, suffered heavily. Unseasonal rains also drained the hopes of grape growers, who were already incuring loses due to recent decline in prices of the fruit. Police said Raver tehsil of Jalgaon district has been flooded.     Farmers in desert state of Rajasthan who had been optimistic and had begun counting their fortunes from mustard and wheat crops suffered a blow by the fierce hailstorms and thundershowers over the past three days. Among the worst-affected areas were Phagi, Chaksu, Dudu, Sanganer and parts of Kota. Rajasthan was expecting a record 40-45 lakh tonne of mustard. However, with these rains the output is expected to be lower.     In stark contrast, wheat farmers in Punjab welcomed rains with a sense of relief. There were earlier apprehensions about the decrease in productivity due to heightened temperatures in February. The state has till now been spared of hailstorms and high velocity winds and farmers hope that with light rains, their crop may just get a new whiff of life.     “Rains have brought down the temperatures, which would help in the process of grain filling at this stage,’’ said state director agriculture B S Sidhu.     Similarly in the hill state of Uttaranchal, heavy rainfall coupled with snow in the higher reaches brought hope to farmers. Met department chief Anand Sharma said two days ago, farmers were advised not to irrigate fields due to water shortage. They were relieved that rain did the needful for their crops.
Ministers refuse to chicken out of in-House tandoori TIMES NEWS NETWORK Mumbai: And you thought politicians only eat their words. On Wednesday, the state legislative assembly had chicken tandoori on its menu—oops!-agenda. Cocking a snook at legislative procedures which ban eatables on the floor of the assembly, Shiv Sena MLAs Manikrao Kokate and Namdeo Pawar offered chicken tandoori to the minister of state for animal husbandry Hasan Mushrif, a sizzling gesture aimed to underline the plight of poultry-owners in Nashik following bird flu.     The portly NCP minister, known as ‘gourmet’ in his party, began to savour the Delhi Darbar delicacy, even as the House looked askance.     Mushrif shared the chicken tandoori with his senior, animal husbandry minister Anees Ahmed, much to the consternation of Sudhakar Paricharak who was in the chair. A chronic veggie, Paricharak is known in political circles as a puritan. The dhoti and kurta-clad senior NCP MLA represents Pandharpur, the fabled temple-city.     “How can a member bring chicken in the house when a vegetarian member and a veteran is occupying the chair?’’ asked minister Harshavardhan Patil in an attempt to soothe Paricharak’s ruffled feathers.     A visibly upset Paricharak chided Kokate and Pawar for violating the procedural rules of the House. However, the duo appeared unruffled. Ditto with Mushrif. “In order to protect the livelihood of 38 lakh poultry workers in the state, I am ready to eat some more chicken,’’ croaked the minister.     Later, talking to mediapersons, Kokate said he had offered chicken to the minister on the floor of the assembly to “allay fears about bird flu’’.     Accusing the government of “doing nil’’ to allay popular apprehension about chicken, Kokate said, “In fact, the government is sowing confusion among people. Even as it says that there is no need to worry about the bird flu, chicken is banned in government canteens and railway pantries. Even airlines don’t offer chicken,’’ he added.     Stating that the broiler variety of chicken was not affected by the disease, Kokate demanded a financial assistance of Rs 10 per bird to poultry-owners in Nashik district, who continue to look after 30 lakh broiler chickens. The district supplies 60,000 chickens to Mumbai everyday.     Meanwhile, scores of MLAs are upset that the assembly canteen has chopped chicken off its menu.     Instead, the egg-shaped, air-conditioned restaurant, located in the Vidhan Bhavan precincts, offers mutton which is in short supply. The members have thus to make do with vegetarian fare—upama, uttapa, poha, shira or a ‘thali’.     Onion tears, again     Noisy scenes were witnessed in the state Assembly on Wednesday when the legislators took up for discussion issues like the minimum support price and a sound export policy for onion. Speaker Babasaheb Kupekar adjourned the house for 20 minutes as MLAs, cutting across party lines, persisted in their demand for Rs 800 as minimum support price for onion. They also wanted the state government to announce an exhaustive export policy for the commodity.     The issue was raised by during question hour by the Leader of Opposition Ramdas Kadam, who found ample support in MLAs hailing from onion-producing districts of Nashik, Jalgaon and Ahmednagar. They drew the speaker’s attention to the fact that the onion market had collapsed as the commodity’s price continued to dwindle, affecting the procurement of onion. Senior PWP MLA Ganpatrao Deshmukh supported the irate MLAs.     While he assured the members that the export policy for onion would be announced on Thursday, marketing minister Harshavardhan Patil said a proposal on minimum support price had been sent to the Centre on February 20. “We are awaiting New Delhi’s directive in the matter,’’ he added.     However, Patil’s statement failed to pacify the MLAs who left their seats to gather in the ‘well’, ignoring the speaker’s instructions. Sena’s loss, Raj’s gain     With the Shiv Sena stripping senior party MLA and a Raj Thackeray supporter, Bala Nandgaonkar, of his deputy leadership, stage is set for a political spat between the two Senas.     Nandgaonkar, who defeated Chhagan Bhujbal in the 1995 assembly election from Mazgaon, is the first Sena legislator to come out openly in Raj’s support. Raj recently floated his new political party by the name of Maharashtra Navnirman Sena (MNS) at a mammoth public meeting in Mumbai.     Not only was the three-time legislator by Raj’s side when the latter announced his resignation as a Sena leader at a press conference in December last, but also accompanied Raj on his statewide tour last month.     Following his removal from the crucial deputy leader post in the Shiv Sena on Wednesday, the lanky Mazgaon MLA slid backwards, occupying one of the last row seats in the Assembly. The deputy leader’s office is a crucial post in the Sena hierarchy.     “The party’s action is a warning to Nandgaonkar to mend his ways and shun Raj’s company,’’ said a key Sena functionary.     Asked if he anticipated his removal from the Sena legislature party, Nandgaonkar replied, “Let them take action. We will give our reaction’’. Nandgaonkar’s resignation as Sena MLA will suo motu lead to a by-election in Mazgaon, offering the MNS its first chance to test the political waters in south-central Mumbai, a Sena bastion, say political observers. ‘Dung scam’ in Aarey?     If politicians in Bihar made a fast buck in the fodder scam, officials in the Aarey Colony in Goregaon are allegedly selling dung at cheap rates. They sold cow and buffalo dung worth 11.75 crore and showed they received Rs 25 lakh.     Alleging a scam, BJP MLC Vinod Tawde blamed government officials for being so “shameless’’ as to not spare even dung to make a fast buck. But Aarey Colony chief executive officer P Ade said: “Our opponents are making these allegations. An inquiry launched into this matter has cleared all of us.’’     Irrigation ire     The Assembly witnessed seven adjournments when BJP member Devendra Phadanvis raised an issue opposing discussion on supplementary demands. Since the cabinet had not taken the governor’s permission before allocating Rs 1041 crore for the irrigation department, it had violated a constitutional provision, he claimed.The issue divided the house on a regional basis as ruling coalition MLAs from Vidarbha and Marathwada joined the opposition in demanding justice for Vidarbha.
I N D I A I N K Onions at Pawar Nasik: Farmers hurled onions at Sharad Pawar at Vithewadi in Devla. They were enraged because he didn’t say anything about declining onion prices during a seminar. Joshi reinstated Nagpur: RSS has reinstated former BJP general secretary Sanjay Joshi as its pracharak with the MP police giving him a clean chit after the forensic report absolved him in the sex CD scandal. 4 burnt alive Kanpur: Four members of a family, including three children, were burnt alive in a fire caused by leakage of LPG at Ram Krishna Niwada village in Kanpur early on Sunday morning. 3 killed in J&K Srinagar: An Al-Badr terrorist was killed by security forces at Sanglot-Gursai in Poonch, while a 14-year-old boy died when a grenade he found in Gool area of Doda went off. Militants abducted and killed a man in Budgam. No VAT in UP: CM New Delhi: UP chief minister Mulayam Singh has said that the state will not implement the value added tax (VAT) system as it “reduces” revenue. Vessel catches fire Haldia: A Shipping Corporation of India vessel with 500 people on board caught fire on a voyage from Port Blair to Kolkata. All passengers were reported to be safe. Jailbreak leftovers Chandigarh: Two more tunnels dug by Babbar Khalsa International India chief Jagtar Singh Hawara and his three associates to make good their escape have been found in Burail jail here.
Din in House over subsidy By Ambarish Mishra/TNN Mumbai: The Democratic Front (DF) government has started damage-control exercise following ruckus in the state legislative assembly on Monday on the issue of subsidy to onion producers.     The controversy has mauled the NCP which covets farmers as its principal political constituency. Speaking in the assembly, deputy chief minister R R Patil of the NCP said the government would not worry over funds in order to help onion growers. The Congress too is worried that the party’s ‘pro-farmer’ image may take a beating if the subsidy issue is allowed to fester.     Moreover, the smooth conduct of the house is the DF government’s immediate concern. Little wonder, then, that the treasury benches are eager to resolve the onion imbroglio at the earliest. Two crucial bills which have been scheduled for Tuesday—ban on plastic and Ulhasnagar demolitions—need a peaceful assembly.     The onion issue sparked a heated debate in the state cabinet meeting close on the heels of the opposition Shiv Sena-BJP combine’s pandemonium in the house. The saffron MLAs have been demanding Rs 300 as per quintal subsidy to onion producers in view of the recent decline in the commodity’s price.     “We have several options before us. A decision will be taken very soon,’’ minister for marketing Harshavardhan Deshmukh told TOI. Intervening in the matter, speaker Babasaheb Kupekar held talks with Deshmukh. The minister met opposition bigwigs too in an attempt to defuse the crisis.     “The government is a tad confused on the issue. We agree onion producers need some kind of subsidy as the commodity doesn’t fall under the minimum guarantee bracket. However, past experience shows that fiscal compensation to farmers doesn’t reach them. The money is siphoned off by middle-men. We want to sort this out,’’ he added.
ONION ATTACK Punish guilty, says red-faced Pawar TIMES NEWS NETWORK Mumbai: Though Union agriculture minister Sharad Pawar insisted that nobody had hurled onions at him at a Nashik rally on Sunday, the response of the Nashik police to the protest depicts a different picture. The police have arrested 22 persons for allegedly hurling onions at Pawar and creating a ruckus at his meeting.     Nashik rural police superintendent Rajvardhan said, “We have arrested 22 persons. One of them is from the Shiv Sena and the rest are from the Shetkari Sanghatana.’’ The police, however, said none of the onions hit Pawar. The police say that they have identified a person who played a key role in throwing the onions. “We will arrest him soon,’’ Rajvardhan said. He declined to elaborate.     Local NCP politicians said they had sensed trouble, but did not expect that onions would be hurled at Pawar to humiliate him. “The government is busy with the legislature session and has not taken any decision on the onions issue,’’ an NCP activist said.     The Nashik incident has proved to be a major embarrassment for Pawar and he has reportedly asked the officials to take stern action against the persons who threw onions. Deputy chief minister R R Patil said there could have been some laxity in the security arrangements. “But the police cannot be expected to frisk 70,000 farmers. It would amount to showing lack of confidence in them,’’ he said.     While onion traders at Vashi’s APMC market did not want to openly applaud the onion missiles targeted at NCP leader Sharad Pawar for ignoring the lowpricing of onions, they are definitely concerned about the nose-diving of rates.     During last winter’s kharif and late kharif, the area under the crop was 94,440 hectares and 69,200 hectares respectively. Unseasonal rains wreaked havoc on the kharif crop, resulting in onion prices rising sharply. However, a good late kharif crop that has begun arriving in the markets has led to fall in the prices.     In February-March, onion was auctioned between Rs 380 and Rs 410 a quintal in the main agricultural markets in Maharashtra against Rs 1,600-2,000 during October-November. The APMC director of onion and potato market, Ashok Valunj, stated: “If we keep politics aside, the onion farmers are in a bad state only because Maharashtra has now started producing far more onions, but there are no takers due to market dynamics. That is why the farmers are angry and confused, but it has nothing to do with Sharad Pawar.’’ Valunj, however, is hopeful that the state will come to the rescue of the farmers with an effective agro-economic policy.     Valunj, however, is hopeful that the state will come to the rescue of the farmers with an effective agro-economic policy. “Many more farmers had been opting for growing onions in the last few years, resulting in a surplus situation. We hope this does not continue,’’ he said.     Maharashtra produces 25-30% onion of the total production of the country. It also contributes 80-85% in the onion export.
City police to probe fashion malfunction TIMES NEWS NETWORK Mumbai: The Democratic Front government, which is already grappling with issues like the drought, a massive power shortfall, farmers’ suicides and crashing onion prices, now has another task at hand. Chairman of the legislative council Shivajirao Deshmukh has directed the government to conduct a detailed probe into the series of wardrobe malfunction incidents at the recently concluded fashion week in the city.     Deputy chief minister R R Patil, who holds the home portfolio, later told newspersons that Mumbai police commissioner A N Roy will ask his staff to conduct the probe. “If it’s proved that these malfunctions were deliberate, action will be taken against the organisers and the fashion designers,’’ he said. He did not indicate if action would be taken against the models as well.     Social activist and deputy leader of the Shiv Sena in the upper house Neelam Gorhe, who was earlier with the Republican Party of India, raised the issue by way of a point of propriety. She said two incidents of ‘flesh flash’ owing to defective designer wear had taken place during fashion week, and alleged that these were not accidents, as claimed by the models and fashion designers, but stage-managed incidents. She went on to allege that three more such incidents had been slated to take place, but did not.     She also said offences against the organisers should be registered under the relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code. It’s legitimising obscenity: Navalkar Mumbai: Social activist and deputy leader of the Shiv Sena in the upper house Neelam Gorhe on Monday made a strong pitch against what she alleged were rigged exposes during the recent fashion week in the city.     “In media and fashion shows, women are depicted in poor light. Pornographic pictures, films and CDs are available openly in the market. Wardrobe malfunctions will give a boost to such illegal activities. I really doubt whether the wardrobe malfunctions took place accidentally,’’ she said, her tone full of righteous indignation. Senior BJP MLC and the party’s state president Nitin Gadkari, who until last week was busy protesting the inadequate allocation of funds to Maharashtra’s backward regions, strongly supported Gorhe’s demand for an inquiry into the mishaps at fashion week. He was supported by several members. The elders also criticised television channels for telecasting clips of the wardrobe malfunctions.     Senior Shiv Sena leader Pramod Navalkar, who is often described as Mumbai’s one-man moral police force, described the fashion and skin show as “legitimising obscenity’’.     “The Maharashtra government banned ladies’ dance bars on the ground of obscenity. Then why are fashion shows allowed to take place?’’ he asked. Talking to reporters inside the Vidhan Bhavan complex, Navalkar said he had written an article in a Marathi newspaper terming wardrobe malfunctions “absolutely unacceptable’’ and “obscene’’.     He also criticised the use of the National Centre of Performing Arts for staging fashion shows. He said the Tatas were allowed by the state government to build the centre on government land to promote art and culture and not tostage fashion shows. Navalkar said Sena chief Bal Thackeray would take a final call on whether to seek a total ban on such fashion shows.
Onion growers will soon get state subsidy TIMES NEWS NETWORK Mumbai: The DF government has announced a subsidy of Rs 50 per quintal to onion growers in the state. Besides, the marketing federation will offer a transport subsidy for the export of onions, marketing minister Harshavardhan Patil said in the legislative assembly on Wednesday. Onion growers who sell their produce in Mumbai will be exempt from the agriculture produce market committee cess, Patil added. Farmers will be encouraged to sell onions in Mumbai through the co-operative stores network. Proposal to replace taxi meters     Minister of state for transport Dharmaraobaba Atram said that a proposal to replace mechanical meters of taxis with electronic ones has been sent to the state law and judiciary department. While replying to a question on these meters, the minister said that there are 661 cool cabs with electronic meters and 54,000 cabs with mechanical meters.The procedure to replace these meters would take about two years. Rs 80-cr package for poultry farmers     After a delay of over a month, the government has offered a Rs-80 crore package to poultry farmers in the state. The offer follows repeated appeals for financial assistance from the bird flu hit poultry industry. Announcing the cabinet decision in the legislative council, minister for animal husbandry Anees Ahmed said farmers would get Rs 20 per unsold chicken. Besides this, free cold storage would be made available for storing eggs for a month. Govt says no to Handore probe     The state government refused to give in to the opposition’s demand for a probe against social welfare minister Chandrakant Handore (Congress) whose name reportedly figures in a conversation between underworld gangster Chhota Rajan and his henchman D K Rao who is in Arthur Road jail. Handore denied any links with the gangsters and said he was willing to face an inquiry. Irrigation projects: Govt to raise money     The state government is willing to raise Rs 12,000 crore to complete the longpending irrigation projects in western Maharashtra and others regions as well. Stating this at a meeting of MLAs on Wednesday chief minister Vilsarao Deshmukh said the money will have to be raised in the open market for which the planning commission’s nod is needed. Nearly 60 MLAs, mostly from western Maharashtra, called on Deshmukh in his Vidhan Bhavan office and made a powerful plea for funds to complete the on-going irrigation projects in their region. Crawford Market: Minister in a spot     Minister of state for urban development Rajesh Tope found himself in a tight spot in the state legislative council on Wednesday when MLCs from his own party criticised him for his reply over the Crawford Market issue. The Shiv Sena-BJP controlled BMC has been criticised severely for giving away the market for redevelopment for a song to a private developer. The Congress and NCP have opposed the deal. 40-seater planes to fly between towns     The state government and the Union civil aviation ministry are planning to connect important towns in the state with 40-seater planes, said chief minister Vilasrao Deshmukh while replying to a question in the council on Wednesday. Man kills self after father sells bullocks to pay loan Lasalgaon (Nashik): Upset over his father’s act of selling off their bullocks for repaying crop loan, a 19-year-old son of an onion farmer at Brahmangaon, a kilometre from here, ended his life by consuming pesticide at his house on April 2.     According to a police statement recorded by onion farmer Sakhahari Durgude, his son Vijay was against the idea of selling the bullocks owned by the family. The farmer told the police that he had no option but to sell off the bullocks for repaying the instalments of the Rs 2.96 lakh of crop loan he availed from the Brahmangaon co-operative credit society. Vijay, who was emotionally attached to the animals, was upset when he learnt about the sale. Around 8 pm on April 2, he left home for the family farm nearby and consumed pesticide. Vijay’s brother was first to see him lying in a state of unconsciousness and the family rushed him to the Nashik civil hospital where Vijay passed away.     According to inspector Sanjay Sangale, in-charge of Lasalagaon police station, Sakhahari had repaid Rs 1.2 lakh of the total loan amount with instalments cleared up to June, 2006. “He (Sakhahari) had a regular crop loan and no outstanding burden,’’ Sangale said. A drastic crash in the onion price this season has spelt doom for the onion farmers in the region that produces almost 50& of the state’s onion crop.
J U G U L A R V E I N Goa, Goa gone — II Jug Suraiya Goa was full of non-Goan propertyhunters rushing about buying up the place like tomorrow was an expired lease. But if Goa was full of these people, they in turn were full of Goa. Property hunting is a tiring and hungrymaking business. After you’ve dashed from Uccassaim to Arpora where you’ve heard a plot of land is going cheap, only to discover when you get there that the elusive bit of real estate is actually down south near Colva, you require sustenance more substantial than the repeated exhortation ‘What a fine sin-sinary’ (Gujarati and north Indian tourist-speak for ‘What lovely scenery. Are we having fun yet?’). What you are in dire need of is lunch. Fortunately, Goa does a mean lunch. Not to mention dinner, breakfast, elevenses, twelveses and inbetweenses. Indian food — the culinary avatar of the subcontinent’s social history presented on a platter — is without doubt the best food in the world. And Goan food — an engaging melange of Konkan spice and Portuguese guile, with just a smoky hint of Africa — can lay claim to being among the best regional candidates on the Indian menu.     Alphonse de Albuquerque sailed up the Mandovi in 1510 and Goa became a colony of Portugal, which it remained till 1961. With the first monsoon, when the rain came thudding down in sheets, Alphonse must have found time hanging heavy on his hands. He’d built a couple of protective forts at the mouth of the Mandovi, established the settlement upriver. What was an empirebuilder to do next, dude? There were no ODIs to watch, no SMS to text buddies back in Lisboa, no Sunday papers to read. So Alphonse did the only thing he could. He invented the vindaloo. Or it might have been xacuti. Or maybe cafrial. Of course Alphonse didn’t actually invent any of these delectable things himself. He must have had masalchis and sundry lackeys to chop the onions and the beef and the chicken, and ladle in the vinegar that gives Goan cuisine its inimitable tangy flavour, and simmer it all over an unhurried fire till the aromatic steam rose like a fragrant miasma, mingling with the smell of rain and river and wet earth, a geography of the palate, the creation of a country in a cooking pot. Goa’s secret weapon which it uses so disarmingly against the new land-grabbing conquistadores who are threatening to overrun it is food. For the visitor, Goa can often be one long, extended meal, with intermittent intervals of siesta to allow digestion to do its work. The day begins with the early morning tinkle of the breadman’s bicycle bell. Warm from the oven, the bread has a taxonomy all its own: There is the cottonwool-soft pao, the wholemeal pui, the crusty brun. Impossible to tell which one you like most; best eat all three.     At breakfast the main topic of discussion is lunch. Lunch consists of amotik (a sort of fish vindaloo, preferably made with shark) and teesriyo, clams doused in garlic butter. Dessert is bebinca, a cholesterol battering ram made with egg yolks, sugar, flour and gobs of butter. The bebinca has yet to be cleared when plans are underway for dinner. Should we have shrimp curry with rice or with sanas, made from a fermented idli-like batter? The debate inconclusive, we decide to have both. And to stave off hunger pangs till dinner, there’re always bolinghnas, plump cookies with just a touch of grated coconut.     After six days of this, I felt that Goa was growing on me, its growth concentrated around my waistline. And I realised why property is booming in Goa. It’s a case of inelastic supply and elastic demand. There’s only a fixed, or inelastic, supply of land in Goa. But the girth of the land buyers — and the space they increasingly occupy — is noticeably elastic, thanks to the local fare. I helped myself to a final bolinghnas. And sod the property prices.
Onion farmers take suicide route despite subsidy By Prakash Joshi/TNN Mumbai: Leaders are baffled that a slew of measures have not been able to stop the onion farmers from taking the suicide route in areas surrounding Nashik.     It was some time in February or March that the Congress-led Democratic Front government announced a Rs 50 per quintal subsidy on onion sold to the agricultural produce marketing committees (APMCs) in state. Even though the move cost the exchequer a cool Rs 40 crore, what remains unclear are the reasons for the ‘fall’ in onion prices as well as the despair among the onion farmers.     Those handling onion marketing are rather bewildered by the ground reality which is indicative of artificial fall in the onion prices, possibly caused due to hoarding of this politically sensitive commodity by traders.     The average onion cost during first three months of year 2005 was Rs 294 per quintal, while it is estimated to be Rs 277 per quintal this year.     Although both the marketing experts and the state administration have rushed to call the Rs 17-fall ridiculous, they also claim that it is ‘not all that steep’, since it is normal for prices to slide down during first three months of almost all seasons. The onion that arrives in market in first three months of the year is late Kharif crop and can not be stored.     However, what is surprising is the fierce agitation by farmers of onion growing regions surrounding Nashik. In fact, NCP stalwarts are still trying to find out what went wrong during last week’s public rally at Nashik where the audience pelted onions at the party president and Union agriculture minister Sharad Pawar.     Another fact that has the NCP leaders wondering is why there is no demand for railway rakes at Nashik centre, given that traders and farmers have a large unsold stock of onion crop. The cooperative banks which provide loans to onion farmers calculated the loan proposal on the basis of Rs 25,000 per hectare as production cost. According to APMC figures, the onion rate in the region stood at Rs 218 per quintal, thus fetching the farmers Rs 54,000 for produce per hectare. Apart from this direct incentive to farmers, the government has also decided to give a relief of Rs 20,000 per 40-feet container exported to Europe.     However, the Shetkari Sanghatana leaders who are leading the onion growers’ agitation in the Nashik region are not convinced by the government estimate that onion prices have not ‘fallen that low’. Pasha Patel, an active member of the Shetkari Sanghatana who is now the general secretary of state BJP, does not agree. “The fact that the past three months have seen suicides by onion farmers is enough to indicate that market mechanism has failed to protect farmer interests and that the government intervention came in very late,’’ says Pasha. He also claims to have visited Brahmangaon near Lasalgaon in Nashik district on Friday, when one farmer who was forced to sell off his bullocks after onions did not get him enough returns had committed suicide.     Four farmers have already committed suicides in the last 45 days in the region while the authorities are left hoping that the new incentive scheme will provide the much-needed relief to the farmers and prevent them from taking the extreme step.
PROBLEM OF PLENTY Fifth farmer ends life as prices of onions crash TIMES NEWS NETWORK Mumbai: Unable to face the crisis created due to falling onion prices, another Nashik farmer—the fifth in the past two months—committed suicide on Monday night. In his suicide note the farmer, Pandurang Kadam (65), clearly blamed the Congress-led governments at the Centre and Maharashtra for the plight of onion growers.     According to reports, Kadam said he sold 17 quintals of onion for Rs 2,950, of which Rs 1,000 went towards cost of transportation etc. He already had a debt of Rs 13,500 and electricity dues of Rs 400. A father of two, Kadam said he simply did not have the financial capacity to clear his dues and maintain his family and hence was ending his life. He consumed Roger, a pesticide, at Yeola. Death was instantaneous.     Onion prices have been falling over the past four months in Nashik, which produces 50% of the state’s crop, following a spurt in production. The increase in production, in turn, was caused by excellent rains. The district produces 6 to 7 lakh metric tonnes of onion per season and this season the production was estimated to have crossed more than 8 lakh metric tonnes.     Chief minister Vilasrao Deshmukh had recently announced a subsidy of Rs 50 per quintal, which the farmers say is highly inadequate. Onion farmers have been demanding at least Rs 300 per quintal so that they are able to aborb the 30% rise in production costs and keep a small margin for themselves. Now prices have touched rockbottom at less than Rs 200 per quintal, Shiv Sena MLC Kanhaiyalal Gidwani, said. He said the government should give a minimum support price of Rs 500 per qunital.     Irate farmers had even flung onions at the dais on April 2 when Union agriculture minister and NCP chief Sharad Pawar was addressing a rally at Vithewadi in the district. They were upset that he did not take up their issue in his speech. Incidentally, NCP leader Chhagan Bhujbal is the guardian minister of Nashik district and MLA from Yeola.     During the NCP state convention in December held in Nashik, Pawar had not given any assurance to the onion growers and resentment has been gradually building up since then.     Normally, Pawar keeps himself abreast of farmers’ problems and they were shocked that he did not evince any interest in their problems. They accused him of being interested only in the problems of big farmers growing sugarcane and grapes. Shiv Sena executive president Uddhav Thackeray and BJP leader Gopinath Munde have already led onion farmers’ agitations, but in vain.
NEWS DIGEST Fire ire against UP CM: Angry Meerut residents forced UP chief minister Mulayam Singh to retreat from Victoria Park, the site of Monday’s devastating blaze that claimed at least 52 lives and left 150 injured, before he could take stock of the situation there. P 9 Wholesalers threaten strike: The state’s wholesalers, who went on a one-day strike on Tuesday, have decided to stop getting fresh supplies from Thursday and, along with hoteliers, threaten to begin an indefinite bandh from April 19 against VAT. P 17 Farmer commits suicide: Yet another farmer has committed suicide in Maharashtra due to the hardships caused by falling onion prices, taking the number of such cases to five in two months. P 8 Pak’s N-deal complaint: The Pakistan foreign office on Monday declared that the US did not keep it fully informed about the Indo-US nuclear deal as the information shared initially with it did not match the final agreement. P 16 Mafia threats to Bollywood: Bollywood seems to be back in the sights of the underworld with both director Ketan Mehta and singer Sonu Nigam having received threats recently. P 4 Dutch demand cricket dues: The Dutch cricket association has alleged that even after sending reminders for two years, the Indian cricket board, under its previous regime, failed to pay up almost Rs 30 lakh for a tri-series hosted in the Netherlands. P 21 Housing society ruling: The State Consumer Redressal Commission has ruled that members of cooperative housing societies will be treated as consumers, so residents can claim damages if their society has overcharged them for repair works or other ancillary services. P 7 MPs lose official homes: The Union urban development ministry has cancelled the government accommodation of 19 MPs who were found either misusing their government bungalows or illegally occupying them. P 15 Passport norm changes: A directive from the high court would no longer be necessary for changing the date of birth and place in a passport, the Gujarat HC has ruled. P 11 
A Research Institute Puts The Scanner On Unabated Deaths As Govt Offers Salve Farmers prefer suicide to losing self-respect Debt is not the only factor that is driving farmers in Maharashtra to suicide. A study has revealed that the reasons vary from financial crisis to social stresses such as family disputes and drinking By Abhay Vaidya/TNN Pune: Every time a cotton crop fails or commodity prices crash, as in the case of onions recently, news of farmers ending their lives start hitting the headlines.     Although these suicides have led to the single-point assumption that they are caused primarily by rising agricultural indebtedness, research studies at the Gokhale Institute of Politics and Economics (Gipe) have shown that this factor has been acting as a “trigger” leading to suicides resulting from a complex range of socio-economic factors.     While suicides in Nashik and Marathwada are currently in the news, farmer suicides in Maharashtra have been concentrated in the Vidarbha region largely due to the absence of any “cushioning support” against frequent crop failures, particularly cotton.     This has made the poor cotton growers in Vidarbha vulnerable to suicide, scholars at the Gipe and the Institute for Social and Economic Change (ISEC), Bangalore, said.     Although Maharashtra has the highest area under cotton cultivation (over three million hectares), the yield is 40% less than the countrywide average largely due to a lack of irrigation facilities. Only 4% of the area sown with cotton is irrigated. Over 400 suicides were reported in Vidarbha in 2005. The three months of the new years has seen the trend continue.     “No suicide happens because of any single event. It is a result of a combination of stress factors on an individual which culminates into a trigger leading to suicide. In Vidarbha, crop failure has been acting as a trigger,” ISEC’s Prof. R S Deshpande said.     Deshpande, who has been closely studying farmer suicides in Karnataka and Maharashtra, said a number of factors such as reduction in net farm income and rising input prices in cotton cultivation has been making the small farmer extremely vulnerable to suicide.     The fact that the element of self-respect (maan-apmaan) is very strong in Vidharha often leads farmers to take drastic steps to maintain their dignity.     Gipe researcher A Narayanamoorthy said accumulated indebtedness over the years because of poor income had brought many farmers to the brink of suicide.     Gipe scholar B B Mohanty, who, along with fellow scholar Sangeeta Shroff, had undertaken a detailed analysis of 30 farmers who committed suicide in three districts of Vidarbha, told TOI that while crop failure and indebtedness were primarily responsible for suicides among small farmers, in the case of medium and large farmers, serious family crisis, drinking and gambling habits and chronic illness or problems of old age were factors that led to suicides.     This analysis by the Agro-economic Research Centre under the Gipe revealed that although the devastating impact of crop failure was felt by the entire farming community, those who committed suicide were forced to do so by the additional burden of hostile sociological factors.     For example, the analysis of 30 farmer suicide cases revealed that among small farmers, 36.37% committed suicide "due to loss of agricultural income and indebtedness'', but in the case of medium farmers, this factor prompted 25% of suicides and in the case of large farmers, barely 14.29.     On the other hand, 54% of large farmers in Vidharba committed suicide due to family problems, old age and illness.     In the case of medium farmers, while onefourth of the suicides were related to old age and illness, 33% were due to family problems, drinking and gambling.     Mohanty and Shroff undertook their study, ‘Market imperfections and farmers’ distress in Maharashtra,’ in 2002-03 following a spate of 42 suicides by farmers in Amravati, Yavatmal, Wardha and Nagpur districts. Mohanty said that neglect compared to politically powerful and prosperous regions like western Maharashtra had made the distress levels in Vidarbha soar. DEATH DATA A study of 30 farmer suicides in three districts of Vidarbha throws up a few eye-openers: I Among small farmers, “loss of agricultural income and indebtedness” drove 36.37% to suicide I The figure dropped to 25% among medium farmers. Family problems, gambling, drinking forced 33% to take their lives I Only 14.29% of large farmers chose death after crop failure. Family feud, illness and old age drove 54% to death
Cabinet reality check on food prices In recent months, the government has been under pressure on account of wheat prices, which are expected to ease with the new supplies entering the markets TIMES NEWS NETWORK New Delhi: The cabinet committee on prices (CCP) will meet on Tuesday to review the costs of vital food products at a time when prices of certain pulses are on the rise, while onion prices have hit rock bottom in Maharashtra.     While officials termed the meeting as a routine review, the CCP is meeting for the second time in a month. In recent months, the government has been under pressure on account of wheat prices, which are expected to ease with the new supplies entering the market.     There is also a bonanza for Assam, a week after elections to the state’s assembly ended. While the cabinet is scheduled to consider the establishment of a Central Institute of Technology in Kokrajhar, a 20-year proposal of roping in GAIL (India) Ltd to set up the Assam gas cracker unit is also on the cabinet committee on economic affairs’ agenda.     The project, announced by Rajiv Gandhi during the Assam Accord days, has not found favour with repeated appraisals saying it was economically unviable.     A U-turn by the Planning Commission a few months ago led the public investment board agreeing to the proposal. But the project still requires a lot of handholding in the form of tax waivers both from the Centre and the state.
EXCEPTION HERE
Mamma Mia! It’s Italian food!     As Mumbai soaks in the summer sun, Grand Hyatt Mumbai is helping Mumbaiites cool of with the tantalising tastes of authentic Italian cuisine at Celini, their Italian restaurant. Starting from May 26 and on till June 3, the special a-la-carte menu brings flavours typical to the sweeping landscapes of Rome and the romance of Italy. Prepared by guest chef Michele Gullizi from Park Hyatt Saigon, it has his signature Italian delicacies, which include dishes like ‘agridolce croccante di cipollotto con gamberi’ — sweet and sour crispy onions with sautéed shrimps, ‘antipasto misto freddo’ — the mix cold appetiser, ‘saccottino croccante con foie gras e oca confit’ - baked crepe filled with foie gras and duck confit, ‘ravioli di astice e cipolla al burro di scampi’ - lobster and onion ravioli or scampi butter sauce and much more.     Vegetarians can feast on a ‘involtini di verza con ricotta e funghi’ - cabbage involtini, ricotta cheese, mixed wild mushrooms, ‘lasagne di ortaggi con pesto genovese, olive taggiasche’ — vegetarian lasagna, pesto sauce, black olives and ‘ravioli di melanzana e scamorza con salsa di pomodori pachino e timo’ — eggplant and scamorza cheese ravioli, oven roasted cherry tomatoes and thyme sauce.     Authentic in taste and presentation the delicious set menu prepared for lunch and dinner by Chef Gulizzi includes exotic desserts such as ‘panna cotta al gusto di caffe con lavoche dolce' — espresso panna cotta, sweet lavoche and 'insalata di agrumi, sorbetto al campari' — citrus salad and campari sherbet among others.     Truly home-style Italian cuisine, the a-la-carte set menu is priced at Rs 1,800 plus taxes, per person including a glass of fine wine along with a variety of tantalising delicacies.     For further information call: 66761234.
HALF EMPTY The Haunted Cappuccino In a café, people think they are in the middle of a cool informal way of life. But devious formal forces make fools out of them, writes Shobhan Saxena     Along time ago in the land of sizzling sands and arid air, lanky men with sunburnt skin and soft grey eyes walked in loose robes through highland bushes, plucking dark brown beans as the sky threw fire on their heads. Back in their stone dwellings, they would start huge fires at sunset, grind the beans into a pulp and dunk it into boiling water in red clay pots. As they roasted the beans, the smell of qahwa and the clink of pestle and the smoke from the fire licking the dry air would waft across the desert’s darkness.     As the drink fell into the bile in their empty stomachs and the qahwa molecules entered their heads, Shadhili dervishes would hold the sounds and smells in their silent gaze. Then they would roll up their eyes. The hairs on their arms would stand up. They would toss their tumblers in the air and break into ecstatic gyrations. They would clap and whirl around the fires. The haunting sounds of their longing for Him would travel through the night’s loneliness. They would brew qahwa, spin on their toes and crave for His love all night.     Now people drink coffee somewhat differently. Inside sanitised spaces of affluent coffee republics, they have espresso, cappuccino, latte, mocha or even a drink they called loneliness. But like ancient mystiques were entrapped by a coffee spirit, even today coffee is stalked by abstract influential forces. Some call it marketing.     Why do we pay Rs 50 for a coffee? Why does someone want three coffees in the morning? The man separated from his wife may have an answer. His breakfast is last night’s fish curry with chopped onions and four slices of bread with ketchup.     He eats alone at his spindly table, littered with onion skin and crumbs of stale bread. He has no fulfilment — either in work or love. He goes down to the Café Coffee Day just off the road, orders a fresh sandwich and a cup of hot coffee and suddenly his spirits are up. He feels at home. Using plastic money lifts his self-esteem.     He is a hostage of a café business that works on at least five cardinal rules of enticement.     Rule No. 1: Keep them happy. A customer should feel relaxed enough to spend money while in the shop. Rule No. 2: No bad experience for anyone. Make sure there are enough chairs and no lines. Rule No. 3: Dig deep into their wallets. Launch new products every now and then. Offer add-ons at steep prices. Rule No. 4: Make them spend time. The longer they stay, more money they spend. Rule No. 5: Smart pricing. Name and package your drinks in such way that people don’t mind paying Rs 100 for a cup of boiled water.     It is not true that coffee evolved from being a fluid to being an experience. It was always an experience. Just that the experience has transformed today. The chairs in a cafe are always plush these days. The music chases your blues away. One can do his work while sipping coffee. Almost everyone here is young.     A boy sits in a corner, solving Boolean algebra problems and drinking cappuccino. Another man talks to his stockbroker while having a café latte. Dragging their hookahs, a group of twenty-something girls talk about how redundant men are. Over their second latte, a few young men talk of high finance and low Sensex. Between huge bites, two colleagues drown themselves in office gossip.     Smelling her drink, a young playwright talks to her imaginary characters. A bunch of boys play the guitar and compose a haiku —‘drinking coffee is pure thought’. They don’t get anywhere but they keep trying. So do two lovers who are locked into each other’s glassy eyes. It seems they are breaking up. They can’t think of anything but deep love for each other, but they won’t admit it. There is a single cup of coffee between them, not good enough to bridge the abyss. The girl’s dark eyes turn liquid and she leaves. The boy writes on a napkin: I wish I could possess you again, orders another coffee and melts into the crowd.     Breaking up at Barista? Why? It is a neutral ground free from the stress of the home or the office. And there are friendly faces behind the counter. When your world is collapsing, this atmosphere provides you a primal human connection.     As the day progresses, the teens are replaced by cricket moms, executives and desperate singles. In a corner, a calorie-conscious girl sits with three boys. She is not drinking anything, but the boys try to impress her by ordering coffees with extra flavour, ice creams and choco chips. Their bill shoots up as the girl keeps them all happy and confused. On the next table is a man surfing the web with his Wi-Fi. He hasn’t ordered anything, proving coffee-culture researcher Bryant Simon’s 20-minute rule of thumb: if you stay at a café for 20 minutes or less, you’re drinking; more than that, you’re working. TNN
EXCEPTION HERE
IN THE MOOD FOR FOOD? ALWAYS Mumbai, that long tongue of land sticking out into the sea, is as global in its food as in its finance. Foodie Rashmi Uday Singh celebrates the city’s huge appetite and suggests ways to further whet it The fate of nations depends on the way they eat. —Jean-Anthelme Brillat-Savarin If Mumbai had a flag it would have a vada pao on it, just like the flag of the Nizams of Hyderabad proudly flaunted a kulcha. Mumbai is a city that lives by its gut, and for the last 16 years, for every single week, I have been privileged to get a gut feel of the city. My weekly column has me flooded with reader feedback in the form of lengthy phone messages, emails and letters too. How I love these! I have also tracked the ‘rise and the rise of the Mumbai restaurant’ by systematically eating (and paying) in every single worthwhile eatery for my six food guides and two night life guides. I’d like to place on record that the last few years have been the most sensational. After years of having had to make do with white sauce for Continental and sweet corn soup and chopsuey for Chinese, now suddenly, the world has begun distilling itself on our plates.Korean barbecue, Japanese Ishiyaki, Jewish Oaf Memulay. All this in Mumbai? Yes.     Without doubt Mumbai’s restaurantscape is exploding; the eatery has become the theatre for Page Three action. Chefs have become celebrities and celebrities chefs. Sachin Tendulkar, Amisha Patel, Ash Chandler, Dino Morea and even industrialists have set up restaurants. Food has never been more fashionable. The growing middle class, double income families, more disposable income and therefore more television, travel and internet have all helped to make our palates more experimental. I have watched restaurants trounce all other forms of entertainment. When you think of a birthday or anniversary celebration, what do you think of ? A play? A movie? Or a restaurant? No prizes for guessing the right answer.     It’s all about globalisation exploding on your tongue, and what better example than the Mc-Donaldisation of the humble vada pao, that hardy staple of the street that is now being blast-chilled, cooked in stainless steel and branded in the Gupta’s Jumbo King chain.     Restaurants are expanding their menus, customising their decor, and looking more international. This trend is evident in the popular buzzing all-day-dining restos. Frangipani kicked off the trend. Sanjay Narang initiated the stand-alone restaurant chain trend and now Joy Kapur and Sanjiv Chona have taken it ahead with their Bombay Blue and Noodle Bar chain serving falafal, nachos and onion rings with equal panache.     We have also turned our faces to the East, perhaps because Eastern cuisine with its heady spice and sharp flavour has more appeal than blander Western fare. Please notice that while Mumbai has had no new French curiosity, the Asian kitchens have all made an appearance: Teppanyaki,Indonesian,Balinese,Korean,Mongolian, Burmese, Vietnamese have arrived , whether at India Jones (Hilton), Pan Asian (ITC Grand Maratha) or Spices (JW Marriot). It’s not just fivestar hotels—Farokh Khambatta was the first to serve sushi at Joss, Nitin Tandon and Kishore DF’s Seijo and the Soul Dish followed. And finally, Hemant Oberoi gifts the city its first dedicated Japanese restaurant, Wasabi.     It’s not just lighter, oriental cooking styles which are in. Indian food continues to evolve in Taj’s Masala Kraft and Masala Bay to include lighter, healthier styles. Our first organic restaurant, Pure, opens in Taj Land’s End. Right through, the great survivors—Khyber, Copper Chimney, Urban Tadka and Cream Center—continue to dominate with their channa bhatura, kababs and chicken makhanwalla. Grand Maratha’s Peshawari and Dum Pukht are still on top. New arrivals, such as ITC Grand Central’s Kababs and Curries, Intercontinental’s Kabab Corner and Grand Hyatt’s Soma raise the bar.     Look at how coastal cuisine has blossomed. It started out as Udipi lunch homes and has ended up with bow-tied waiters and air-conditioning. Thankfully for me, the Potnis family keeps the flavour of Highway Gomantak intact as does Maithili Sawant of Saayba, and the vest-wearing owners of Anant Ashram continue to serve great fish and rude attitude.     Do you remember how we happily chugged along with Punjabi Chinese and Gujarati Chinese? Enter Nelson Wang, who banished red lanterns, served up a gleaming China Garden with authentic fare along with innovative Chinese pao bhaji, blazing a chef-owner trend like never before. Years later, chemical engineerturned-chef Rahul Akerkar made a similar mark. His award-winning Indigo is our first truly international restaurant. Moshe Sheikh’s tiny Middle Eastern Moshes has a loyal fan following. A D Singh branched out and with Olive and put the Mediterranean into Bandra. All over the city lounge bars loom, discos close down. So, has Mumbai arrived? No way. Gourmet capital? Not quite. Andrew Dornenburg once said, ‘What drives gastronomy is money and people’, and we have lack neither. Why then are we not out there with the food capitals of the world? Find out. Go regional     How weird is this? One-and-a-half eateries serve Parsi food in this headquarter of Parsidom. We don’t have a single Andhra restaurant or one for Chettinad or Kerala food. Just a couple of Bengali ones, we could do with more. I’ve had more Indian regional food in London than in Mumbai. Maybe we should invite the Panjabi sisters from London to work some of their magic here. World class? Not quite     It’s very easy to crib but before we do that we must applaud some of our world class restaurants. Be it Indigo (judged one of the 60 hot tables of the world by Conde Nast Traveller) or Morimoto’s Wasabi (Conde Nast has rated it amongst its Golden Restaurants and Institution Hoteliers top 100 restaurants of the world). However, what we sorely lack is consistency. A good restaurant is one which consistently delivers the same experience, be it food or service. Sadly our restaurants fall short. The attention to service needs to be cranked up, and how! And yes, we need more world-class restaurants, plenty more choice of cuisines. Less of that wretched fusion (confusion) cuisine, and for God’s sake let’s stop decreasing the portions and increasing the prices. Let’s concentrate on the quality of ingredients instead of over-cute, fussy presentation and decor. Let’s not sacrifice style to substance. Falling by the Wayside     Given a choice between a local restaurant and a local museum I’d go to the restaurant. Here you can see, smell,touch and taste the history and culture of the place. Why are we letting our wonderful Irani brun-maska-chai places die out? Dr Ambedkar drafted the Constitution of India at a table in the historic Wayside Inn at Kala Ghoda, and instead of preserving it, we’ve throttled it in silk. Surely the state should take action to help the struggling owners.Who, in turn, could be more savvy and deliver more value to us. Smarten up our street food     Long before McDonald’s and the rest of the world caught on to it, we were dishing out vada pao and other fast food at dirt-cheap prices. Jo bhi mangta hai, millay ga, from the warm and comforting vada pao to the tangy and chatpatta bhelpuri, not to forget the taka tak of the pao bhaji, the layered chutney sandwich and that unabashedly gluttonous Khau Galli. Instead of brooming these away, how about setting up hawker zones like Singapore or a food street like Gawalmandi in Lahore? Ensure hygiene, give them space but let’s retain the ambience and feel. Instead of waiting for Ramzan to go to Mohammedali road, why can’t we set up a permanent food zone there and make that succulent area accessible to all? Home kitchens     Where else can you have a home-cooked meal delivered to you in a dabba? Or have a Cordon Bleu chef conjure up a world-class cake from home? Vegetarian Lebanese?Fabulous prawn pickle? Handground masala? And plenty more. Over the years I have thrilled to new discoveries. It’s my favourite dream to give these talented women not just financial encouragement but also a location where they can make their goods available. It’s a win-win for all of us, will some entrepreneur please take the initiative?     Vote For     The Best Vada Pao     and Bhelpuri Send in your vote for what you consider is the tastiest vada pao and bhelpuri you’ve ever eaten in Mumbai. We are in the process of doing an original and (if I may say so myself) a path-breaking recce. It’s as democratic as can get. Over the past two weeks, readers have been calling in and emailing their recommendations for Mumbai’s best vada pao and bhelpuri walla.     Based on these votes we will take to the streets (literally) to verify these claims. Along with a band of dedicated readers and foodies, we are going to drive down the length and breadth of the city stopping only at vada pao and bhelpuri joints. Jackie Shroff will join us. And finally, on Sunday, the best vada pao and bhelpuri wallas will be awarded. This     is your last chance to do your duty     by your favourite vendor:     Call 22161313 or email contact@rashmiudaysingh.com.     What are you waiting for?
Eat Pay Leave
Vegetable, fruit prices hit the roof Increasing Demand, Delay In Monsoon Cause Spurt In Rates TIMES NEWS NETWORK Mumbai: Up, up and away. From vegetables to fruits and grains to fish, prices have hit the roof and market players insist that they will continue to pinch consumers for another 20 days to a month.     The delayed monsoon is seen as one of the prime reasons, particularly in the case of crops like tomatoes and onions. The recent rise in fuel prices and the transporters’ agitation has further compounded matters. Finally, the end of the summer holidays—which sees people rushing back from vacations—is also seen as causing a demand surge, leading to a temporary spurt in rates.     Tomatoes have seen the biggest price hike of 70% in the last eight days. Customers in areas like Andheri, Ghatkopar, Chembur are buying tomatoes for Rs 40 a kg. In other areas, tomatoes are selling at Rs 30-35 kg.     Cauliflowers and green peas have risen by 20-25%. For peas, the price range (per 10 kg) is Rs 340-Rs 360 at the APMC wholesale market in Vashi while cauliflower costs between Rs 90 and Rs 100. Rates for tomatoes (per 10 kg) were in the range of Rs 180 and Rs 200. The prices tend to further increase when they hit local markets.     The other essential vegetables and fruits have not really seen such massive hikes, but their prices have risen marginally in the last eight days, according to market players. Similarly, sugar and rice continue to be steady.     Sources in APMC said the rise in vegetable prices was due to the first monsoon showers that affected a number of crops. The end of the summer vacation has also had an impact. “By mid-May, the requirement of vegetables shoots up and along with it prices go up,’’ said a vegetable wholesaler at APMC.     Prices of grams like urad and moong too have gone up substantially and the rise is expected to continue till February next year when fresh stocks arrive. Says Sharad Maro, President, Grains Rice and Wholesale Merchants Association, “The rise in prices of grams is connected with the rising price of grams in Tanzania. It is a lean period for grams and fresh stock will arrive only next February.’’     The good news is that the price of quality wheat is more or less stable with over 35 lakh tonnes of wheat available in the market. Prices of fish though have gone up as fishing activity is scaled down during the monsoon.
TIMES FOOD GUIDE Of chaats and gelatos! Rashmi Uday Singh     Mouthwatering food overflows into the streets. I am just back from Old Delhi’s Chandni Chowk, where aromas and flavours, cows and rickshaws compete for attention... Now we can get a taste of Chandni chowk in our very own Chowpatty!     We dive straight into the papdi chaat ladled over with thick creamy dahi and channa aloo, ginger slivers and kachaloo and the inimitable spice blends. Veera Loomba who has lived all her life in Delhi, loves it and so does her daughter, the charming performer Raageshwari. NUKKAD Chaat lovers, vegetarians and Jains head straight for this fortnight old Nukkad. Here’s a quick review… Zaroor Khao Ratna Mehra is not at all happy that we have landed up here, “how did you find out we had opened, we have not advertised and nobody has written about it, yet?” asks the lady behind Nukkad. We choose not to answer her and concentrate on ordering a huge number of dishes across the menu. Parathewalli galli ke parathe are a crisp, shallow fried delight, plump with different stuffings. (Go for mooli, paneer, aloo garlic ones) Served with a katori of black dal and set curd, it makes for a complete meal (Rs110-120). Through it all, I am rivetted by the account of how Trilok Singh and Veera left Delhi to pursue a career in music in Mumbai. But he had to wait till he could produce daughter Raageshwari’s music albums and now for the first time, the papa-beti are all set to release their album together. A happy ending, just like our restaurant review. Start with papdi chaat, great dahi saunth ki gujia. Be it the Bedmi aloo, the traditional aloo sabzi, puris stuffed with Bedmi dal, the khatta meetha kadu or the Arbi masala Missi roti, onion kulcha — all the masalas used are hand pounded. Wind up a Tilley walli kulfi, the luscious, golden jalebis, Rabdi falooda in a tall glass (just like Giani’s in Chandni Chowk). Zara bach ke Gets so noisy that we cant hear ourselves think. The service still needs grooming (no wonder Ratna was not happy we popped in) and the Paneer Tandoor se should’ve remained in the tandoor, its undercooked and overspiced. Cholley are too tangy with anardana, too much of gooky masala on the otherwise flavoursome arbi and kadoo and why no Punjabi pickles on the table we ask? Why the Gujarati keri ones? Whatever happened to the golgappa pani? Flavourless. Zaroor Jao Open through the day, offers pure vegetarian (Jain too) snacky options and quick meals in a simple, unpretentious, wooden floored environment. A banquet hall upstairs is already in demand. All dishes are priced between Rs 15 and 135. Some are patchy, ditto for the service. Filtered water used to make authentic Chandni Chowk ki chaat, parathewalli galli ke parathe and tilley walli kulfi. Shahjehan khush hue! Nukkad, 44 Belle View, Behind Wilson college, Chowpatty .Open 12 noon to 12.30night GELATO GELATO “Dadar needed a lively, young café with quick bites (sandwiches, salads et al)”, says Raageshwari who lives in Kings Circle. And when we hear of this cracklingly new cafe Gelato Gelato we dash down there to sink our teeth into the low fat Italian icecreams. We insist on Gogi Singh (of Preetams and the brain behind this café) taking us into his kitchen and showing us the gelato making process. Gleaming Italian machines whirr gently as Italian pastes are added to serve up silken low-fat, gelato. We love the tiramisu, the casatta flavours (Rs 40 per serving). We couldn’t sample the sugar free, fat free options, sundaes and more since the café had just opened. But we recommend what we ate. Both in Purani Dilli aur Italy.     Gelato Gelato. 32     Dharamputra, Pritam     Estates, Dadar. Ph 24145555     Open 11.30am to 12.30 night
BRIEF CASE Tomato Tantrums Manju Vaish     Housewives are seeing red as tomato goes out of bounds. This humble vegetable has sent shivers down the collective spine of the powers that be, compelling them to offer it to the public at an affordable Rs 20 a kg at select outlets. This is not the first time that the price of tomatoes, or onions, or whatever, has hit the roof. It’s an annual phenomenon which comes with the monsoon. Oldies like me were like the proverbial ant which slogged right through the summer to provide for a lean winter. It is just that the seasons were reversed. In December and January when tomatoes were dirt cheap, we would get busy making puree, ketchup, to keep our families well provided for in the veggie-lean summer months. How gratifying it was to turn out rich tomato-based gravies, when the vegetable had all but disappeared from the grocer’s shelves. Indeed a few decades ago, when refrigeration facilities were unheard of and transportation primitive and inefficient, one had to be proactive when there was a glut in the market, or just make do without tomatoes. Indeed, the housewives who had not preserved the stuff in winter were like the silly grasshopper that sang and danced in the sunshine the entire summer, to starve to death in winter.     Winter in Delhi, with its plethora of sunshine, was a major preserving season. Lemons and oranges were cheap, plentiful and of excellent quality. Dozens of bottles of lemonade, orange squash, ginger-ale, would be diligently churned out, to slake the thirst of family and friends in the gruelling summer ahead. Marmalade, guava jelly, lemon pickle were mandatory follow ons. If one was tardy, the family would have much to go without in summer, for on a single salary, buying bottled drinks or pickles was downright prohibitive. Summer too was not bereft of major culinary marathons. Now it was the king of fruit, the mango, that reigned supreme. Mango pickles of myriad styles, chutneys and squashes were de rigueur for any housewife worth her salt. But all this is a tale of another era, and yours truly a species as extinct as the dodo. Would I get into those culinary shenanigans once again? In keeping with the times, all messy, tedious tasks are, you guessed it, outsourced.
Veggie prices turn around with weather TIMES NEWS NETWORK Mumbai: Barely 10 days after vegetable prices went through the roof, they climbed down again, thanks to a change in the weather. While wholesalers lamented a slack market, it’s now bounty time for buyers.     “This weather—with its good balance of rain and sun—is particularly good for cucumbers and cauliflowers. The prices for these vegetables have come down by more than 60%, more so because the monsoon is an unfavourable season for stocking vegetables. The stocks have to be sold as quickly as possible,’’ said A Wadkar, a wholesaler at the Agricultural Produce Markets Committee (APMC) in Navi Mumbai.     APMC sources said retailers from all over city were refraining from stocking up on their vegetable supplies due to storage problems during the rains.     “The business is slack on the wholesale side but booming for retailers despite the falling prices. For instance, a month ago vegetables that were sold at Rs 10 a kg in the wholesale market were sold at Rs 16 by the retailers. Today we are forced to sell that same vegetables at Rs 4 while the retailers sell it at Rs 12, ensuring a good enough profit margin,’’ said Ashok Gawde, APMC’s vegetable division director. He added that the current prices will remain stable until July 15.     While the plummeting prices are a reason enough to smile, on the flip side this also means that buyers will have to wait for a while before they can buy fresh vegetables. Also prices of leafy vegetables like spinach, methi and coriander have gone up. “Leafy vegetables are capable of rotting within two hours during the rains. Due to this the supply is limited in the market even though the demand is the same,’’ explained vendors.
FARRUKH DHONDY’S WORLD CUP DIARY Hey Bhagwan, What About Hindustan? The Other Day, India Played Madagascar In A Do-or-Die World Cup Clash. It Was A Killer. Naah... Thursday, 15th June     Essen’s Humptidumptischer Airport is swarming with Indians and I get into the wrong queue at the airport and am forced to solve three ‘Fiendish’ Sudokus to get through. These planeloads of desis seem, by their various accents to have flown in from the USA, Canada, Trinidad, South Africa and of course from Mumbai, Delhi and everywhere else in India. While English fans travel with rucksacks, the Indian contingent looks like people bringing home household goods from the Gulf. Could they be illegal immigrants planning to disappear into the German landscape after India is defeated on points or knocked out of the World Cup in the next rounds? My journalist friends, one of whom is in daily contact with RAW, the Indian secret service, tell me that visas have been strictly scrutinised. Judging from the numbers, one wouldn’t think so. And even in this passport-checking queue, a fellow in a yellow polo shirt approaches me and asks if I want black market tickets for the game.     I disdain to reply and give him a withering look to try and convey that I will shop him to the police. He quotes me $ 2000 per ticket.     “I am British, I don’t think in dollars,” I reply.     I don’t need tickets. I have a forged Free Press Pass made in a basement in Wolverhampton and can get into any game I choose.     On the way to the hotel,dragging my laptop and suitcase on wheels (taxis are so expensive here), I pass five Indian girls, teenagers with T-shirts on which is emblazoned the shameless slogan, ‘Salman We Want Your Babies,’ a dedication to, I presume, Salman Azad, the Indian striker,and not the other famous Salmans, the actor or the novelist married to Padma Laxmi. I am so taken aback by the boldness of the slogan that my eyes stay on their breasts for a moment longer than they decently should.     “Read English, do we?” one of these saucy bitches asks me. They laugh raucously at the joke as they pass me. Probably drunk in the early afternoon.     My hotel overlooks Essen’s tiny but famous cobble-stoned Parziplatz with its statue of Freddie Mercury in the central fountain. The receptionist sends me to the wrong room. I only find out when I open it with my plastic key, dragging my stuff to the fifth floor up the stairs because the lift has been sabotaged by drunken English fans throwing furniture and each other down the shaft. As I enter the room, there are two writhing bodies on the bed, locked in some Tantric ritual. The man shouts out a word in German which I only half understand (the word, not German!) which is “Hund-fixer”. “Hund” is, of course “dog” and I ask the receptionist as I am complaining about her mistake what “fixer” means. She giggles. “Ze man wish that you to a dog love must make.” The room to which she shifts me overlooks the back of a block of flats. I can do research in Essenese laundry. Friday, 16th June     Essen looks like Republic Day in India with the tricolour flying from thousands of taxis.     Not a taxi to be had. I have to walk to Essen’s famous Littelzakorner Stadium fashioned, like the Cricket Club of India in early art Deco. The fellow in the yellow polo shirt is selling his black tickets outside. The price has now fallen to $500. The India-Madagascar game is obviously less popular than he thought.     The game itself is thrilling. The police separate the Madagascar fans from the Indians. With my Press pass, I am in a separate box but I can see the Indian fans waving what looks like dhotis to the sound of a hundred tablas smuggled into the stands.     The world knows the results of the game, so I won’t rehearse the details of this first Indian victory. Vidia Singh Kalra scores that first goal three minutes after the starting whistle with a header straight into Madagascar’s onion bag. Our teams passing is seamless, unquestioning, natural — as though they were passing black money to each other rather than the ball.     Salman’s playing is a bit disappointing and the Indian fans shout obscenities at him.     We hold our breath when the ball bounces off Vikram Mehta and gets past Suryawanshi to score an own goal allowing Madagascar to equalise.     The drawn match proceeds to the last five minutes of the second half when Homi Ratnagar scores the second goal taking a long shot from midfield. The Indian fans go wild. The chant of “Rat, Rat, Rat, Rat” breaks out and then the inevitable song “Homi, the Homo, we Luuuuuuuv you!” And so victory.     The Essen night is noisy with drunks. Desperate to celebrate our first victory and hopeful of finding someone to celebrate it with, I wander into a pub. Indian fans are everywhere. A group of young men are swigging beer and attempting to pick up the waitresses.     “Thank God, we scored early.” I say as an opening gambit.     “Speak for yourself. None of us have scored yet,” one of them says. They laugh. They are all from America.     “I didn’t know Americans follow football,” I venture.     “This dude thinks were here for the football,” one says and again they laugh.     I ask them what they think of the BJP’s agitation about our Italian-born manager.     “Sunny Gandovessi is married to an Indian, he has Indian kids and he is a naturalised Indian citizen and he speaks better Hindi than my mum,” says one lad.     “It’s racist of the BJP, calling him foreign.”     “Not what they are saying. They just regret the fact that out of a billion people we can’t find a native born Indian for the job.”     “Bullshit, dude. What if he was a Mozlem?”     “The captain is,” I reply. “And he was appointed with their blessing.”     “That’s PR, what you gotta reckon...” the boy says, but doesn’t tell me what I have to reckon because at this point two young ladies, who look to me like Rumanian hookers walk into the bar and he hypnotically wanders over like a mongoose with his eye on two undulating snakes.     I get stuck on the Superior Sudoku in my hotel room. Saturday, 17th June     Fiji play Antigua in our group today. I suppose I should be interested in the game because the winner will then play Madagascar and if they are defeated the scores within the group will hang on our the next two games.     In Starbucks I meet the Indian tout in the canary yellow Polo shirt. He recognises and approaches me.     “Only a $100,” he says. He looks defeated.     “Are you really a black-market ticket-walla?” I ask, inviting him for a coffee.     “No,” he says. “I am actuallya lecturer in post-colonial cultural studies.”
Reviving rural India Arun Firodia The corporate sector is growing by leaps and bounds and urban India is booming. But what about rural India? There, the situation is a complete contrast. Over 25,000 farmers have committed suicide since 1997. Last month, farmers threw stones at government officers who had come to acquire their land for a software park. The signs are ominous.     Have things improved in rural India? Abhijit Sen of JNU has studied the consumption of the bottom 80 per cent of the rural population. For these people, numbering 600 million, consumption has actually declined in the last 15 years. Their food intake has gone down resulting in malnutrition and poor health. Let us face it: We have a sub-Saharan Africa in our midst. We just cannot dream of marching forward if we leave behind two-thirds of our population. The rural bullock cart will become a roadblock to our urban superfast train.     Are we willing to let farmers make a decent living? When onion prices rise, we all rise in protest and force government to immediately import onions; when farmers raise prices of milk we raise hell. Government is now going to import millions of tonnes of wheat. That would depress wheat prices and hit farmers where it hurts most. This has to stop. We must allow our farmers to make a decent profit for a decent living.     But that is not all. There is a problem with our farmers, too. They are conservative and risk-averse. Surely we need to change their mindset too. This is where government has to take a bold and revolutionary approach. Government should depute a team of 10 young officers to every block of villages as ‘developers’ with a mandate to act as change agents. The team should be led by a project leader who must be empowered to achieve desired results in the given time frame and budget.     The responsibilities of the team should be the following: Undertake watershed development, construct check dams and tanks, dig wells, popularise drip irrigation, ensure safe drinking water supply and prevent soil erosion; motivate farmers to sell their produce directly to urban consumers and construct cold storage facilities; obtain help from agricultural universities to improve farm productivity, train farmers to plant non-traditional crops and implement organic farming; help set up agribusiness; arrange finance and crop insurance; develop alternative energy sources such as biogas, biodiesel, ethanol and solar power; organise sanitation, drainage and waste disposal; organise education, adult literacy, vocational guidance and women’s empowerment; and assist in computerisation, distance learning and telemedicine.     No fresh recruitment is needed for this. The best and brightest young government officers should be transferred to this cadre. Since there are over one crore government officers, a transfer of 5 per cent annually will not affect efficiency. We will have five lakh officers every year dedicated to the cause of rural development. These officers should be given accelerated promotion and special increments if they achieve their targets. Then they can be eligible for transfer to cities. They should be given quality accommodation with all amenities. An institute of integrated rural development should be started in each district to impart hands-on training to these officers — 1,000 at a time. After training, they should be posted in a block of villages in that district. In 10 years the entire country will get covered.     There is also an urgent need to abolish outdated laws like APMC Act which force farmers to sell their produce only to market committees controlled by influential politicians. Farm produce should be allowed to be sold freely across state boundaries. Government should protect our farmers’ interests in WTO negotiations. We must prevent developed countries, which give huge subsidy to their farmers, from dumping their farm produce on us at cheap prices.     Finance minister P Chidambaram has budgeted Rs 50,000 crore for the Bharat Nirman programme. But Rajiv Gandhi had famously observed that only 15 per cent of development funds actually reaches intended beneficiaries. The Centre also depends on a matching effort by the state governments. State governments need to strengthen the delivery mechanism.     We need an economic revolution that starts in villages, not one that bypasses them. And we need a creative solution for such a revolution.     The writer is chairman, Kinetic Group.
Bulletin Board NO DIKTAT FOR SCHOOLS Thursday could again be a day of confusion in many homes with school-going children as the state education department has let school managements take a call on whether to reopen on Thursday. The department ordered all schools to stay closed on Wednesday, leaving no room for any confusion. In the absence of any clear government directive on Monday or Tuesday, parents had complained of indecisive school managements. VEGETABLE PRICES Veggie prices have shot up as trucks ferrying fruits and vegetables to the city have not been coming because of the heavy rain. Retail prices of onions, lady’s finger and potatoes have gone up by about Rs 3 a kg. A big bunch of coriander now costs Rs 60; it used to be Rs 25 last week. A kilogram of green peas also costs Rs 60; it was Rs 40 last week. Cauliflower costs Rs 30 a kg and cabbage is priced at Rs 20 a kg. Fruits like apples, peaches and plums cost Rs 80 a kg and pears now can cost anything upto Rs 100 a kg. TRACKING PROBLEMS Things were not much different from Tuesday. Trains moved on Western Railway, although at a snail’s pace in the afternoon, and Central Railway stopped running suburban services from 12.30 pm; both Main and Harbour lines went out of action as tracks were submerged at Sion, Matunga and Kurla on the Main line and Vadala and Chunabhatti on harbour line. Services on the Main line were restored at 3 pm but Harbour line came back to action only after 8 pm. Senior CR officials said the low-lying areas from Sion to Kurla had a slow water discharge into BMC drains. CR has solved waterlogging at Masjid and Sandhurst Road stations by constructing additional culverts. Near Vikhroli station, which also used to go under water, CR created a parallel kutcha nullah connecting two east-west drains so that water flow was well distributed. A few trains to Pune were also cancelled. COLLEGE ADMISSION Few students arrived to pay their fees for admission to FYJC. The authorities have extended the admission process till July 7 and preference form-filling and counselling procedures for medical admission, too, have been extended by two days. The deadline for submitting application forms for admission to second-year engineering at VJTI, College of Engineering-Pune and Shri Guru Gobind Singhji Institute of Engineering and Technology-Nanded have been extended till July 7. PHONES TAKE A HIT Thousands of telephone land-lines have gone dead following the past few days’ rain. Besides the Santa Cruz-Khar belt, where many lines have been down for a month, the other problem areas for MTNL are pockets of Byculla, Kandivli, Sion, JB Nagar, Marol and Mira Road. Mumbai Telephone Users’ Association president Anandini Thakur said several thousand phones had gone blink in the Santa Cruz-Khar belt and services were being restored but the continual downpour had now affected other lines. MTNL general manager (marketing) A K Jain said over 10,000 phones were hit by cable faults in the city and suburbs because of the rain. There are 23 lakh telephone connections in Mumbai, Navi Mumbai and Thane. POWER BACK Power was restored by Wednesday afternoon to all areas in the suburbs where supply was cut off on Tuesday to ensure people did not get electrocuted. Reliance Energy Ltd (REL) said it had carried out repairs on its lines at several places in last two days; the agency cut off power to areas in Andheri, Goregaon, Malad, Santa Cruz (East), Kalina and Kurla on Tuesday. REL officials refuted reports that its feeder lines had tripped at certain places. There were initial reports that large parts of Andheri and Malad had once again no power.
Govt wakes up to inflation bomb Moves In To Curb Speculative Transactions In Commodity Futures Market Nidhi Sharma & Sidhartha | TNN New Delhi: Having dealt with the supply side problems that were pushing up prices of key household items, the government is now moving to curb speculative transactions in the commodity futures markets.     The consumer affairs department has shot off a letter to state governments seeking suggestions to improve the functioning of the markets, besides asking for a list of commodities to be removed from futures trading.     Confirming this, Delhi food and civil supplies minister Raj Kumar Chauhan said, “The Centre has asked for suggestions on forward trading. They are in the process of setting up a commission to look into the matter and want to know what state governments feel. We will send our reply soon.’’     The consumer affairs department has also asked the Forward Markets Commission, the regulator for commodities trading, to overhaul norms for products like guar gum—which is used only in chewing gum and ice cream, but attracts high trading interest—and some pulses where volumes are low but are prone to large price swings. Concerns over the nature of transactions in the futures market and the limited impact they have had on farmer interests, which was at the heart of the much-publicised launch of the two exchanges, are also casting a shadow on the entry of institutional players like FIIs in trading.     The development comes close on the heels of a high-level meeting of chief ministers of all Congress-ruled states called by party president Sonia Gandhi on the price rise issue. The CMs blamed futures trading for the spiralling prices all over the country.     Mindful of concerns, the cabinet committee on prices had, last month, asked cabinet secretary B K Chaturvedi to discuss ways to strengthen the commodity futures markets, pending legal amendments. Chaturvedi has held initial parleys with the finance ministry brass and North Block has also moved in to keep tabs on wheat prices in the futures markets since the commodity is seen to be under maximum pressure given the shortage in domestic and international markets.     But the review by the cabinet secretary may create a rift between the finance ministry and the consumer affairs department with North Block officials once again pointing to the need of a common regulator for the securities and the commodities markets.     The battle over control of regulatory aspects meant that the government could not introduce a legislation for over two months and when the issue looked settled, there were cries of wide-scale speculation spoiling household budgets.     “We have noticed speculation in the case of smaller commodities. Though trading will stabilise as markets grow, we want to ensure that there are no problems even in the short-term since farmer interests are involved,’’ a senior official said.     Potato and onion were also added to the list. Chauhan said: “We will watch prices of these vegetables carefully. So far, there has been no change. If forward trading has an inflationary effect on prices, TAMING PRICE DEMON     PM had promised stringent measures against hoarders and profiteers to curb rising prices to avoid further hardship to the common man.     He wanted to strengthen the public distribution system to provide essential commodities at reasonable prices.     Congress chief ministers, in a recent meeting, had sought better regulation of forward trading in foodgrains and some other essential commodities.
TIMES FOOD GUIDE 3 TO TANGO Rashmi Uday Singh     What an action-packed week it’s been! An uber cool experience on five floors of food and fun in Bandra: The Great Indian Wedding in the limpid-laked Udaipur, a peek into the brand new Colaba nightclub with waiters in Hawaiian shirts and straw hats. ZOUK, SQUEEZE, KHYBER Caution! Serious party zone ahead. Five floors of it. It seems a bit like a swanky outerspace station has landed in the midst of rubble and shantys. Ignore that, head for this centrally located (a few minutes from Juhu and Bandra, off SV Road) building with so many options piled up for you.     You walk right into two levels of black granite dramatically enhanced with red, (Parmeshwar Godrej’s touch is evident.) The dance floor is of a double height, the decibel levels are deliciously over the top and when we walked in the DJ was spinning Hindi music. But international bands, DJs and more also play here, the entrance cover charge is Rs 500 per head on weekends, Zayed Khan, Salman Khan and others party here and (no prizes for guessing) this two-levelled nightclub is called Squeeze.     One floor up and contemporary chic envelopes you and this is a room you can hire for parties… it’s called Zouk. We start getting suspicious glances as we walk in and out of Zouk and zoom up in the lift for our meal. Now, no matter in how much of a detailed way I describe the fourth and fifth floor, you’ll never ever imagine it is related to the 45-year-old, 10,000 sq feet original. The one in Kala Ghoda is adorned and sculpted, has a warren of cozy spaces with walls painted by Anjolie Ela Menon, M F Husain and more. The Bandra Khyber on the other hand is a highceilinged, orange-curtained, glass and light space. Even the waiters are attired in trendy designer uniforms and if you’ve come here for Khyber’s well-known North West Frontier food you are likely to get bewildered and leave. Don’t. Because the menu is identical, the very same Khyber raan (Rs 475 for two) rich with onions, ginger, garlic and garam masala, brain masala (Rs 250) the almond cream chicken rara (Rs 240) here. Veggies have plenty of choice, be it paneer makhanwala (Rs 230) or the black dal (Rs 175), mirch ka salan, bhutta masala and more. Stick to kababs (achari tikka, seekh kabab) if your taste buds don’t revel in masala. Mine don’t but all four of my guests are delighted, even though are food is somewhat cold. The rotis are not the greatest and the mango cheesecake too syntheticy. Stick to the Indian desserts of ras malai and phirni.     Compliments to Sudhir Behl, the dapper owner (who also models) for this five-floored party zone. If only they’d extend the closing hours beyond 1.30 am? Sudhir, what say? P.S.: The prices here are 10 per cent cheaper than at Kala Ghoda. HAWAIIAN SHACK If you thought Hawaiian shacks exist only on palm fringed beaches, think again buddy. This one is in a grotty lane of Colaba, the pavement is mucky, the street is cluttered and yet the two day old bar and nightclub is packed. I’m curious to see how this Bandra original is doing in South Mumbai and pop in for a look-see.     It’s seriously small. Wooden floored, with a thatched-ceiling (couldn’t see too well in the dark) the music is loud, the place is chilled and chilled-out. The booze is inexpensive and the bar snacks (spring roll, kababs and the like) are priced around Rs 100 each. I bump into Salil who very sweetly calls me the next day and gives me the low-down, “As good as Bandra, affordable, good snacks and great music too.”     PS: I must admit, I enjoyed the cosy atmosphere and most of all I lost my heart to those waiters in their colourful Hawaiian shirts and straw hats. Hawaiian Shack, 4th Pasta lane, Colaba. Ph: 22020455. FOODLINE Our relationship has stood the test of time! It’s a wonderful feeling to be connected to you. Love hearing from you. Do keep calling and do keep smiling.     Learn international desserts, Indo-Western desserts, liquour desserts, chocolate bouquet, brownies. Call 9820161832.     Pari supplies veg tiffins and takes orders for parties for Hiranandani Powai, vikhroli (W), Kanjurmarg and Bhandup station areas. Call 25700438.     Learn cakes, chocolates, vegetable carving, Punjabi, Sindhi, south Indian cooking. Call Neetu on 28340133.     Rani takes orders for eggless cakes, desserts, message chocolates, bouquets. Call 9819532742.     For homemade lunch and dinner services, Punjabi and Mughlai, veg and non-veg, Colaba to Bandra, call Arsh Meal Services on 23510790.     Learn chocolates, cakes, bread craft, besan laddoo, chole bhature. Call Mrs Sharma on: 28123415/ 9322284820. QUERIES     Neetu wants authentic Sindhi food caterer in Bandra.     Prakash from Vashi is in search of a healthfood tiffin.     Soni needs full-time tiffin (lunch and dinner) for her diabetic mother. Khyber, Zouk, Squeeze 5th Road, Khar (W), Ph: 26489311-5 RATING FOOD: 3 SERVICE: 2.75 AMBIENCE: 3
TIMES FOOD GUIDE Oh my God!     Ihave been blessed with eternal optimism and can only see the glass as half full instead of half empty. I am forever thanking the one above and counting my blessings too. I can recount three such distinct occasions last week. The first, when I lustily tucked into the superbly robust dhansak with rice (Rs 110) cooked by the ever smiling Mehroo Kadkhodai in the tiny Paradise (Colaba). Gifted Chef Huang Te Sing’s wholesome and nourishing chimney soup (Rs 400 for two persons) in the Oriental Blossom (Marine Plaza) and the whopper of an unlimited Sunday brunch (Rs 1,450 for almost 70 dishes, pizzas too) the talented chef Joy recently introduced in the ever-buzzing Frangipani had me counting God’s blessings. And then guess what? I walk into God’s restaurant. Literally! GOVINDA’S Ever been to a restaurant where the food is first offered to God and then to you? Where the staff (including the cook) does 16 rounds of malas and mantras daily? You can be sure you won’t find any thing non vegetarian (not even bone china, they inform you happily). Garlic and onion are banished to outer Siberia), alcohol is out of the question, no tea or coffee or chocolate either.     Welcome to Govinda’s (near Girgaum, Chowpatty). Run by ISKCON, this small 52-seater eatery hugs the wall of the beautiful Sri Sri Radha Gopinath mandir and has a similar carved stone façade. Inside, bhajans play as paintings of Shri Krishna and statuettes of deities look on benignly. I went expecting a sattvik thali with some traditional dishes and wham! What do we get? Pizzas, dosas (creative ones) and some Indian and Chinese too. A tiny counter stocking breads and hand churned ice creams too.     Ever eaten a dosa with fresh cream, mayo, cashewnut gravy and lettuce? Or one with Schezwan sauce, mayo and cabbage? Though I tried these and could see diners walloping these, I am a dosa purist and prefer the regular dosa (Rs 25). Though, I would recommend you to try the tri-coloured one (Rs 65), a crisp tube with flavours of spinach, chilly and regular. Thin crust pizzas made with vegetarian cheese, ranging from the yoghurt and chat masala aptly named balle balle (Rs 95) to Govinda’s supremo (Rs 150) with artichoke heart bell peppers et al, made in a wood fired oven, imported herbs et al, but somewhat greasy because of the cheese. Not so great soups and Chinese but okayish cholley bhature and a delicious hand churned tender coconut ice cream (Rs 35) complete my meal.     Open through the day, definitely a must for those looking for variety in their no-garlic-no-onion sattvik meal. But one must admit that the lack of these does lead to a lack of taste. But the dedication and caring attitude of Ketan Hazare, Nilesh Pujari and Shoba Fernandes are touching. Cleanliness and good cheer, reasonable pricing, central location and open through the day are some plus points. Good vibrations of the temple and prayers too. Like I said, I always see the glass as half full. FOODLINE Delighted to hear from you. Please do keep calling and do keep smiling.     Very Vanilla, beautifully packaged vanilla beans in a glass tube make for not just a superb gift but a great way to add vanilla to your desserts. I picked up a tube from Indigo Deli (Colaba). It’s also available in other stores. Contact Monika Rajaram at Monika@aswati.com.     Classes for cocktails (Singapore Sling, PinaColada etc), cakes (Devils foodcake, Mango Nut Torte etc), desserts (Tiramisu, marble mousse etc.). Contact Maria Pinto on: 24140959.     Farida Merchant conducts classes for Bohri dum briyani, Moghlai, Chinese, masalas, sizzlers. Tel: 23743092, 9819266900.     Bhoomi teaches one day vegetarian cooking classes; also supplies all types of salads and sandwiches and many more. Call Bhoomi on: 9819470604.     Conducting classes for vegetables and fruit carving, Gujarati pickles, chocolate bouquets, chocolates (85 types), eggless cakes, sizzlers, zero oil (low cal), fresh fruit sweets, dry fruit sweet, sugar free sweets and many more. Call Meena Savla on: 26460936.     Vacation learning classes for ice creams, Italian cheese, cookies, tiramisu and more. Call Seema on 24072546/ 9322284744.     Catering undertaken for Hyderabadi biryani chicken and mutton, chicken liver pate, Kashmiri rogan josh, etc. Call T pot purri platter on: 23776635/ 23725239.     Microwave cookery classes. Call Micro Foods on: 26735723/ 26741629. Govinda’s 7, K M Munshi marg (near Bharatiya Vidya Bhavan, Girgaum, Chowpatty) 32428660 Open 11 am to 11 pm RATING FOOD: 2.25 SERVICE: 4.25 AMBIENCE: 3
TIMES FOOD GUIDE Fast food fundas Rashmi Uday Singh     “Yes! Yes! Very soon!” These are my answers to your questions about when your very own ‘Times Food Guide’ and ‘Times Nightlife Guide’ will hit the stands. We are flattered and delighted that some of you have called it ‘The foodie Bible of Mumbai.’ Once again, we are in the thick of putting together the useful and usable guide for you and are happily welcoming and including all your recommendations and suggested restaurants.     As you know, year after year we cover them all. From the small, hidden off-theeaten-track ones to the swanky ones. We keep it as bristling and cracklingly up-to-date as possible. And your inputs make all the difference. For starters, I owe a big thanks to Zeba Kohli for recommending and letting me know about this week’s restaurant… PRONTO The pavement is grotty, the Colaba street is traffic-choked but the tiny new eatery (which huddles in between shops) beckons. Pronto is not only a home-delivery joint, like its very first avatar in Tardeo, which delivered many a meal to us in our editing suite in Shammi Kapoor’s Malabar hill studio (where I was editing my TV show several years ago.) The Colaba franchise has a small seating space and is, in fact, a little like a doll’s house. Low ceiling, faux red tiled roof and a tiny staircase that takes you into a tiny mezzanine with three steel tables. SURPRISE ! SURPRISE! Would you expect such a tiny space to have such a large menu? Would you expect a restaurant called Pronto to serve not just Italian but also Thai curry and sandwiches and rolls and wraps and Indian? This casual fast food eatery does just that and keeps its price points between Rs 70 to 120 per dish. Keeps its portions generous and its menu has something for everyone. It also keeps its doors open all day. Obviously, its two dynamic partners, Jehangir Poonawalla and chef Anuj Thapar are keen to please. Do they succeed? GOOD NEWS The Value For Money (VFM) food served in generous portions is definitely welcome. Interestingly, it’s the large grilled Englishman’s sandwich (Rs 90) of roast lamb, onions and cheese which gets our top vote. So does the lustily spiced ricotta green pepper cheese wrap (Rs 85). The burger (Rs 75) is a close contender. As is the full-bodied and cheesy pasta (the chicken, mushroom pasta, Rs 120, lasagne bolognaise). Must try the chocolate devastation (Rs 90), which is a large plastic bowl of chocolate and cream delight. And by the way, even that red Thai curry is flavoursome. Free home delivery of even a single sandwich explains why Pronto is in demand. BAD NEWS Please don’t go expecting gourmet fare to this casual fast food eatery. Don’t ask for the pasta aglio olio, it’s overcooked and gloopy. As for the pizza, I like mine really thin crust and the way it is made in Napoli. Our barbecue bliss (Rs 120) was somewhat lacking in flavour and the crust was a bit too thick for my taste. I am told pizzas are hugely popular here. And the mutter paneer was a slushy masala overload. Desserts (chocolate mousse, cheesecake, tiramisu), too stodgy. No wine. And no tea or coffee either! MY VIEWS For those living in the vicinity, Pronto offers free home delivery even for a sandwich. And that, along with its VFM pricing and generous portions are its great strengths. Don’t expect gourmet fare from the varied menu and be prepared for the tiny eating space. Grab a quick bite in its ‘open through the day, quick-in and quickout place’. In fact, this is the model that they are planning to expand all over the city with.     A request: Zeba Kohli, please do keep me informed about it! Pronto Daulatram Mansion, Kittiridge road, Colaba. Ph 22872007. Free home delivery. Open 11 am to 10.30 pm RATING FOOD: 3 SERVICE: 3 AMBIENCE: 2.5
TIMES FOOD GUIDE Raising a toast     Iraise a toast to this brand new wine bar and bistro (even though I am not wildly excited about the toast and the sandwiches here). It’s casual, relaxed, buzzing and open through the day. You can’t miss the deep red wine coloured awning stretching out onto the road at Worli naka. Ivy is the brainchild of Vickrant Chougule (of the pioneering Chateau Indage estate vineyards). I love the maps of the wine regions sketched on the ceiling, the wine shelves lining the walls, the wine books which you can browse, the wine accessories you can buy and the olives, bottled sauces too. Wine shine? A 130 wines to choose from (their own and also imports from France, Italy and the New World. (Eg Lavilla Rouge vin De Pays Doc Rs 1,410. Gaucho Bonardo Malbec Rs 1,270). A huge choice of wines by the glass (starting at Rs 30 for a vino white… Rs 390 for Alpha Zeta Pinot Grigio). Clive the somellier makes helpful suggestions, I sampled a few of the wines by the glass, but unfortunately quite a few of the imported ones (sold by the glass) were unavailable. Happily, I didn’t go expecting a hugely serious wine tasting (like in Paris’ Bistrot du Sommelier where the world’s leading sommelier Phillipe Faure-Brac took me through the paces). So, please don’t go looking for a huge range, go for a casual, quick glass (or three). Pick up some really useful wine accessories (I did) inexpensive wine glasses too. Food ka mood hai? Well priced for sure! Generous portions too. Here’s a suggestion, buy (like I did, from their shelves) a bottle of sweet Thai chilly sauce, drizzle it on the golden fried chicken nuggets (Rs 60) or onion rings (Rs 45) and you’ll enjoy them even more. Sorry! No cheese with your wine here. Go for the pasta. The vegetarian spaghetti aglio olio (Rs 95) is happily al dente and tasty. So is the spaghetti Bolognaise. While the sandwiches disappoint (too much bread and too little filling in the chicken mayo (Rs 75). Ditto for the aloo tikki Bombay masala sandwich (Rs 50) chicken burger (Rs 50) well made and worth trying. “No biryani, not yet delivered today,” I am told, maybe I overheard wrong, that the biryani is outsourced from Persian darbar. The bakery stuff from Daily Bakery is okay… their quiche is a bit like the khara biscuit with a filling, and the desserts served in plastic containers (chocolate mousse Rs 95, chocolate brownie Rs 95) stodgy. The black bottom pie unavailable. And the sickly sharp espresso (Rs 20) avoidable. Raise a toast! I’m delighted! It’s a great new beginning. Open through the day (11 am to 11 pm) VFM, casual, well-located and worth going to for the wine-beginner as well as those looking for a casual, happy bite. Never mind if the food is not gourmet, go nibble on the snacks, enjoy the pasta, pick up a useful wine accessory, browse through the wine books, nurse a glass of wine and watch the world go by! P.S.: Did you know that Queen Elizabeth I used to float a piece of broad in her wine cup for improving the flavour? Raising a glass eventually came to be named for the bread: a toast. FOODLINE I raise another toast to modern technology, as I sit in sunny Los Angeles and access your mails bursting with messages and diwali greetings. God bless you, keep you smiling and keep us connected…     Rina Jain’s Diwali special cookery workshops for all types of mithai, farsan (hot and cold), eggless cakes, sherbets. Call: 28694542.     Call Jayshree for Omani date walnut cake and eggless chocolate cake on 9867675773. Call Vandana for chocolate bouquets and different shapes and flavours on 9820279916. Vinaya takes orders for bhelpuri, sevpuri, idlis, chutneys, masala dosas, kababs, sandwiches etc. Contact Mrs Vinaya Prabhu on 26175677. Classes for Italian, Mexican, Chinese, Moghlai, ice creams, chocolates, chaats, etc. Call Manju on: 26350980/9820413450. For chocolates, brownies, wedding and anniversary cakes, shape cakes, fresh flower décor alcohol surprise call Archana or Aparna on: 22181108/9820150468. Home made food caterer supplies home made food, veg and non veg. Call R Cylendro on: 9324645418. QUERIES Tiffin dabba needed for lunch at Nariman Point. Elaborate Christian wedding cake makers please call the foodline. Jenny needs health food tiffin in Worli naka area. Ivy Indage House, 82 Dr Annie Besant Road Ph 66547939 RATING FOOD: 2.75 SERVICE: 3.75 AMBIENCE: 3.25
Big retailers go extra mile to keep customers happy Abir Pal | TNN     Stacked on the rear shelves of the just opened Reliance Fresh outlet in Hyderabad is a clue—exactly the kind retailers scour markets sniffing around for. Heaped in two black plastic crates are puja flowers—chrysanthemums and the more expensive, but headier, jasmine.     Though slightly incongruous in this air-conditioned 2,300 sq ft Banjara Hill outlet, with its aisles of wrapped vegetables, well stocked visi-coolers and bar-coded produce, they are a clear sign of how modern retail is bending over backwards in the face of local tastes and preferences. On the shelves are four to five varieties of rice including a local favourite, sona masuri. A number that may go up to forty or more, once Reliance rolls out nationally. “We have placed small sample bowls in front of each variety as Indians typically like to touch and feel the produce before purchase,’’ said Jai Bendre, head, food marketing.     The upcoming Reliance Fresh stores, part of Reliance’s ambitious Rs 25,000 crore retail initiative, will have separate non-vegetarian sections and offer home delivery, much like the neighbourhood kirana. Onions, potatoes, tomatoes and other price sensitive categories are being offered in three quality grades, each a few rupees more expensive than the other, to serve all wallet sizes. In-house brands of staples rub shoulders with more expensive ones and cut vegetables and fruits are being sold alongside regular ones.     Hyderabad, where 11 pilot stores have opened is also being used to tweak the critical supply chain or the back-end, which ultimately enables global heavyweights like Wal-Mart to offer the cheapest rates and the widest choice of products. Reliance Fresh’s pilot farm-to-fork project currently uses 16 collection centres in and around Hyderabad to collect fresh produce. Be it cabbage from Bangalore or tomatoes from Madanpalli, 32 vehicles and around 100 people are involved in ferrying it to the processing centre, equipped with cold storages and cold rooms, where it is cleaned, sorted and graded.     Reliance says pickups usually reach the processing centre anywhere between 12 to 18 hours from collection. “The earlier you pre-cool, the longer the shelf-life. So as we grow and volumes pickup, the collection centres may be fitted out to act as mini-processing centres,’’ said Gunender Kapur, head of the foods business. This is in addition to the fruits and vegetables it buys from local vendors and directly sourced regional specialities like apples from Himachal Pradesh. “Right now the emphasis is to ensure that whatever is available reaches stores fastest. But going forward, we will work with farmers on what to grow and how to grow it best,’’ said Sanjay Asthana, head of agri-business.     Reliance Fresh, which formally opened its doors last week, offers a glimpse into how food retailing is likely to shape up in this country. Already retail brands like Food World, Food Bazaar and Subhiksha are fighting it out in markets like Hyderabad, trying to outdo each other by offering the best prices, widest range and special promotions. While food, the largest part of any household budget, holds enormous potential, this is clearly a business that requires deep pockets and long waiting periods. A lot of things need to be got right, especially location.     “Typically most of the everyday buying is done in shops that are in and around where one stays. Ideally walking distance and hardly anything beyond one-and-a-half to two kilometres,’’ says Atul Ahuja, principal consultant, technopak.     But the rewards for those who get it right can be gratifying as Reliance Fresh discovered—the puja flowers sold out within two hours of the store opening.
TIMES FOOD GUIDE Going back hungry Rashmi Uday Singh     You are about to read one of my shortest restaurant reviews, written after eating over the longest period of time (almost a year. Ate five times. Paid bill, each time). The result? It disappoints and saddens even though my guest delights.     My lunch companion’s classical, elegant Salvatore Ferragamo suit sits well on his 6 ft 2 inch broad shouldered body. Salvatore Ferragamo himself, the 34-year-old grandson of the founder of the globally famous Italian designer family is also a restaurateur, hotelier, trained sommelier and his vineyard, Il Borro, produces superb premium wines. When I hear he is in town, I think, “What a perfect guest to invite to the recently opened Tasting Room, right?” Wrong.     He went back hungry (even though we ordered the entire menu of five snacky dishes, the wine list equally sparse and both didn’t total up to much. Except the bill.) We both gave thumbs down to the food and thumbs up to the ambience. I was informed that these were teething troubles and they were getting their act together. Since I prefer to err on the side of compassion and empathy, I wait. Go back four more times, over several months. No joy. My report…     Serene, tasteful, plant-filled ambience in this first-floored eatery. Love the high-ceiling, the large windows, the textures and shapes of the handblown glass, stone-ware, bamboo bowls. After all, it is a part of the fabulous, well-stocked Good Earth store (my most favourite home store).     The constants through my visits? Desolate. Hardly any diners in the restaurant. Same short menu. Onion jam dominates the table (served with bread and features in many a dish). Portions are small, prices are big.     The food now? The only somewhat okayish caramelised onion tart (Rs 225) is served with english cheddar cheese and crème fraiche, and the salt cured greek feta Quso de cabra (Rs 255) is lustily set off with chilli jam. The sandwiches remain uninspired (lamb, grilled beef etc), lobster bisque, smoked salmon unavailable. Ditto for the pear tartlet and the espresso mousse. The only dessert available (the molten chocolate (Rs 185) is avoidable. The booze? The Tasting Room’s wine list has only six Indian wines. And one brand of vodka, gin, rum, beer and two labels of whisky.     What do I say? I am saddened. The ambience is fabulous, the team behind it, hugely talented, they are more than capable of giving us a taste of excellence instead of testing our patience. My request: Please do get the Tasting Room on track as we want to come back to that beautiful place. But as it is now, we can’t. FOODLINE Yipee! I am flooded (even got a mail from Netherlands, thanks Shifali, will get back to you) and yet I want more.Your very own Times Food Guide is being readied and your response to my last column was fabulous. I’ve received mails, phone calls and even post cards from caterers, dessert makers, tiffin dabba makers, food shops, food delivery services, wholesalers, party makers…you name it. Anything connected to food. And it is ALL WELCOME. Will verify and enter it into the book.     Parvinder Bhamra, thanks for your mail offering to help with research in the Vashi area… will definitely phone you back. Any others wanting to be part of this exciting project please do call or email.     A certified instructor from New York, Poonam Lalchand bakes decorative cakes (using imported fondant icing). Call: 23510070/ 9967022520.     For cheesecake (blueberry, peach) tiramisu, rich fruit cakes with marzipan, email: jayshreechainani@rediffmail.com. Call: 9867675773.     Organiser of children’s parties (at reasonable rates) Sanah Mansukhani also makes delicious mayonaisse which she can home deliver. Call: 9820105393.     Humty dumpty makes cakes, pastries, doughnuts, puffs, burgers, sandwiches and more. Call: 9892685577. The Tasting Room Good Earth, Raghuvanshi Mills, Lower Parel Mumbai 13 Ph 65520440 RATING FOOD: 2 SERVICE: 2.5 AMBIENCE: 4
HEADING NORTHWARD Onion prices go up by 25 per cent TIMES NEWS NETWORK Navi Mumbai: The price of onions has risen by nearly 25% in the last two weeks with supplies falling due to the damage caused to crops during the monsoon.     Director of the onion and potoato market, Ashok Valunj, at Vashi’s APMC wholesale market told TOI, “Most of the onions coming to Vashi from Nashik, Satara, Paltan, Pune and other places in the state were ruined in the fag end of the monsoons this year. This has made onion rates go up to nearly Rs 80 per 10 kg, which is a 25% jump from last fortnight,’’ he said.     However, the onion market is likely to stabilise by next week, if more of the fresh stock comes to various wholesale markets in the state. “Only after seeing the farmers’ output to the markets next week we will know if the onion rates will go still higher or come down,’’ he added.     Maharashtra is the country’s top producer of onion. Of the total annual production of about 60 lakh tonnes in the country, about 16 lakh tonnes are produced in Maharashtra, with Nashik, Ahmednagar, Pune and Satara being the major producing regions where the crop is grown over three seasons—kharif (May-July to Oct), late-kharif (Aug-Sep to Jan-Mar) and rabi (Oct-Nov to April-June). Only the onions produced in the rabi season are considered suitable for storage.
MEN AND IDEAS The price of potatoes GURCHARAN DAS I sometimes wonder why I pay Rs 10 per kilo for potatoes when the farmer receives only Rs 3. My potatoes travel some distance, I realise, from the farm to the mandi to my bania, and each person in the chain must get his cut. Still, the gap of Rs 7 seems excessive, especially when the American farmer receives Rs 4 to Rs 5. This gap varies, of course, depending on the commodity and the season, but studies by agricultural economists show that farmers in the developed countries do get a bigger share of the consumer price because their distribution chain is shorter.     Reliance opened seven supermarkets in Hyderabad last month and my friend bought potatoes there for Rs 10 per kilo compared to Rs 18 at his bania’s shop. Another friend who works with an NGO in rural Andhra reported that farmers, who had supplied potatoes to Reliance, reported receiving higher than the mandi price. How could Reliance pay a higher price to farmers and charge a lower price to consumers? Simple, it had eliminated middlemen in the chain. Thus, we should welcome the entry of large retailers. They will bring logistical efficiencies and competition between them will lower consumer prices and raise farmers’ incomes. We shouldn’t wait too long to open this sector to foreign retailers like Wal-mart and Tesco lest Reliance become a monopoly.     A typical farmer harvests his crop, loads it on his bullock cart, travels 30 km to the mandi, where he is often forced to sell at distress prices. Once at the mandi, he cannot return without disposing his produce. He needs the money and the trader knows it. Had he known the price before he left, he might have waited a few days. Where echaupals have arrived farmers are happy because they get to know mandi prices via the Internet. The national commodities exchange (NCDEX) is setting up electronic tickers announcing spot and future prices in local languages at mandis and bus stands in some states. Eventually, the mobile phone will be the farmer’s best source of information. All these developments make traders unhappy.     Since his crop is perishable, the farmer needs a warehouse to enhance his staying power. NCDEX is putting up a thousand cold storages with world class grading facilities, but large retailers will also bring air-conditioned warehouses and trucks, and this will save India’s huge post harvest losses, as high as 40% for some crops. Banks ought to lend money to farmers against warehouse receipts, but the RBI refuses to allow them to hedge against future prices. This is a pity for bank loans would mitigate the farmer’s risk and improve his holding power. In fact, banks should also sell crop insurance. It is amazing that RBI should view futures trading as speculation. If the farmer knows the price of potatoes, he might plant onions instead.     Old habits of the mind die slowly. When you have been a stagnant, peasant agriculture for hundreds of years, it is difficult to grasp how Reliance, commodity exchanges, futures trading, and contract farming will quietly bring a second Green Revolution and liberate farmers from the clutches of the old mandi system, which is at the heart of rural political patronage. Activists oppose the entry of global retailers like Wal-mart on ideological grounds. Talk of farmer suicides is cheap. Politician-traders on agricultural marketing committees play on these insecurities. No wonder, it takes so long to reform in a democracy.
Jaffna Under Siege Blocking off arterial road causes humanitarian crisis Ammu Joseph Sri Lankan president Mahinda Rajapakse recently announced in Delhi that his government intended to buy food and other groceries in Tamil Nadu and transport it to Jaffna. He pointed out that this was the easiest and fastest way to get essential commodities to the peninsula. Better late than never.     If the plan is put into action in the near future it will bring much-needed relief to inhabitants of the northern tip of the island, who have been coping with an even more difficult situation than usual since August.     “Since August” is a recurring theme in conversations with residents of Jaffna, who experienced relative peace in the years since 2002, when the Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam (LTTE) and the government of Sri Lanka agreed to a ceasefire. On August 11, a major offensive by LTTE provoked retaliation by the Sri Lankan Army (SLA) and led to the closure of the A9 highway northwards from Muhamalai. The consequent siege of Jaffna has left civilians feeling like drums beaten at both ends, as one of them put it.     Approximately 37,000 people living near the SLA’s high security zones and artillery points have fled their homes, fearful of being caught in the crossfire of the daily — now sporadic — shelling between warring sides. They have joined the ranks of “internally displaced people” in Jaffna, the geographically isolated part of northern Sri Lanka which, unlike neighbouring areas, is under government control. About 8,000 of the latest additions to the sizeable population dislocated by the 20-year war are, at present, living in temporary camps. The rest have sought refuge with relatives and friends.     The blocking of A9, the only land route connecting the peninsula with the mainland and the lifeline for the northern district, has more or less trapped people within the embattled area. Travel and transport by sea and air have also been affected by the renewed conflict. According to residents, the period since August is the worst they have faced in two decades of war.     This is the first time they have had to deal with such scarcity of food, fuel and other essentials. It is not that there is no food at all. Limited rations are distributed through cooperative stores, but quantities are minimal and inadequate. With staples like rice, flour, sugar, milk powder and lentils supplied in one shop and other basic food items like onions, chillies and oil dispensed through another, people are forced to spend long hours in queues for meagre provisions. Various items become unavailable from time to time: Last week, both sugar and milk powder (including infant food) were in short supply.     Prices of the few commodities available in the open market, including vegetables, have tripled or even quadrupled since August, placing them out of the reach of most citizens.     Fresh outbreak of hostilities and related developments have resulted in widespread unemployment. The prohibition of fishing in the name of security has rendered a large number of people without any source of income. Shortage of building materials has meant no work for a wide range of workers, including masons and carpenters. With shops dealing in a variety of goods unable to replenish supplies, many have downed shutters, throwing another category of people out of work. Thanks to the fuel shortage, auto drivers and others in the transport sector have limited scope to earn a living. Local journalists quote labour department estimates suggesting that 2,000 persons employed by the small private sector operating in the peninsula have lost their jobs.     Schools, which were closed for two months, were recently reopened to enable children to prepare for their exams. But the situation in University of Jaffna is surreal. The institution has not been officially closed, but it is functioning without students and has, therefore, suspended all teaching activities. A third of the student body comes from outside the peninsula. After trouble began in August, the university had to house and feed the marooned youngsters for two months before they were sent home with the cooperation of the armed forces.     Despite the heavy presence of the army, and curfew from dusk to dawn, killings and disappearances continue. Apart from daylight murders, such as the shooting of a gram sevakar in his office by armed men on a motorcycle on Thursday, there are the infamous white vans with no number plates or other identifying marks, carrying masked, armed men who take individuals away from their homes at night. Many are later found dead, many others are not seen again. According to residents, the situation has worsened since August and there is little families can do to trace missing relatives, let alone secure justice for murdered ones. Even the local human rights commission appears unable to do much beyond documenting the shadowy crimes.     Jaffna residents cope with the difficult situation with varying levels of resilience, fear, anxiety, resignation and resentment. They are obviously paying a heavy price for deviation from the thorny path towards peace and escalation of war-mongering and violence on both sides.     In his Heroes Day speech on November 27, LTTE chief Velupillai Prabhakaran said there was “no other option (other than) an independent state for the people of Tamil Eelam”. This has left people in Jaffna feeling more vulnerable than ever: What would the Rajapakse government’s response be?     The writer is a journalist who visited Sri Lanka recently.
CITY LIGHTS Single Bells     The new Penguin book on singletonhood, Chasing the Good Life: On Being Single, has a list of contributors drawn from an incestuous Delhi-Mumbai circle, most of whom either love or hate each other (as one critic put it ‘they either want to back-scratch or back-stab or do both alternately’). The Mumbai launch had all the usual suspects present to congratulate editor Bhaichand Patel, who though married, said he has lived apart for so many years that he qualifies as single.     In the introduction, Dolly Thakore, one of the contributors, called Patel “friendly and easy-going but sometimes tactless” and recounted how many years ago she had invited him home to dinner (“at which Vidia Naipaul and his then new wife Nadira were present”). “Scotch and wine were being served when Bhaichand made a comment, ‘Nocturnal earnings.’ I was furious. It was just the kind of thing a chauvinist would say, to imply that no woman could lead such a lifestyle honourably. I swore I would never speak to him again.” Of course, flowers and apologies followed, and after many months, Dolly ended the estrangement. When asked to contribute to the singleton book, she did so, and made sure she put in the incident. “Which he edited out,” she announced to general laughter.     More laughter followed when adman/columnist Suhel Seth came up next and announced, “All of you here are invited to Delhi on January 26 for the Republic Day parade when Bhaichand Patel is going to be put on an elephant because he qualifies as India’s most lecherous, dirty old man.” Seth went on to read out his piece on how debonair bachelors should seduce female prey into their lairs for dinner followed by post-prandial activity that does not include scrabble. Though the delivery was entertaining, the piece itself was belaboured: when they enter your home make sure they hear Andrea Bocelli not Daler Mehndi or the pressure cooker; talk about Premchand not Karan. Of course, it must be said that Seth unequivocally qualifies for the Congenitally Single title: “Thirteen proposals, engaged twice, wedding cards printed once, but always managed to do the Houdini act in time.” Turkey Chilli Chappati     While hostesses in Mumbai are falling over each other to source traditional festive fare complete with all the trimmings, Londoners can go desi with a vengeance in yet another way. Among the groaning buffet tables of Indian restaurants there, Cafe Spice Namaste has offered two fixed price Christmas menus.     On Menu 1, the only concession to Christmas is an audacious Turkey Chilli Fry Chappati. For the uninitiated, it is described as ‘Shredded turkey tossed with sliced onions, green and red chilli, mixed peppers and a light drizzling of mixed spices, rolled in plain flour chappati that is coated with date-andtamarind chutney, and then slowly pan grilled’. Naturally then, its starter-partners aren’t some pale wilting asparagus with Hollandaise sauce but the chatpata Paneer Tikka Chaat and Dahi Saev (sic) Batata Poori, Malai Moorg Tikka and Seekh Kavaab. The main course at least has some Christian if not Christmas associations. It is Goan Prawn Curry. There’s also Jardaloo ma Murghi, which gives away the connections of the Parsi owner-chef, Cyrus Todiwalla.     Tradition doesn’t fare any better on Menu II. Once again turkey is dispensed with as a starter, this time it’s tikka, along with duck, which may be barbary, but which has been barbarously diced up as a Batak kay Tikkay. The main course is again Goan, Xacutti but sacreligiously not chicken but chickpea. As bad, even the Parsi offering is vegetarian, Vengna Turiya No Patio, which sounds exotic but whose main ingredients are the homely baingan and turai, instead of the usual shrimp.     If you thought that at least plum pudding would salvage British honour, you can flambe your hopes with brandy and wash them down with paan-liqueur, not port. The desserts are kulfi and bebinca. Delicious irony. The Empire Strikes Back at the very root of tradition. But then how can there be a White Christmas in an increasingly Brown London? Santa on Hill Road     With each passing year, Christmas has become increasingly secularised. Almost every home sports a Christmas tree, and Santa hats are all the rage. As with Holi, where Chinese pichkaris have taken over, Made in China synthetic trees and baubles have swamped the market. But this year, one of the main Christmas streets, Hill Road in Bandra, has taken a hit. The road, which urgently needed to be redone, is like one long construction pit with piles of gravel, huge trucks, and heavy machinery. But it’s still worth it to brave the chaos and go to the end of the road to gaze at the window of Damian. The furniture store has long boasted one of the best Christmas windows in the city. Last year, Santa came riding a minitrain that chugged past a huddle of igloos. Visitors, tourists and Bandra NRIs home on their Christmas holidays, whipped out their digicams to preserve the memory. Perhaps this year Santa should come riding in a cement mixer or a road-roller, and in his bag have a recipe for a pothole-free road. That would be a present Bandraites would bless him for. Tailpiece     The buzz in the air is that although Santa is visiting Mumbai as usual this year, he is doing so with a heavy heart. Why? Not because of the bad roads he will have to brave, but because his favourite chimney at Elphinstone Mills, a lovely square heritage one designed on the Lancashire pattern and broad enough to accommodate his bulk, has been bulldozed. There are still a few round, stone chimneys left for him to whoosh down, but soon they will be smashed too as mills turn into malls. How will Santa stage an entry then?     (Contributed by Nina Martyris, Bachi Karkaria and Vinay Nayudu. Graphic by Tuhin. Compiled by Nina Martyris)
EXCEPTION HERE
MAN OF THE MOMENT NAHEED ATAULLA     It is not in many years that one gets a chief minister who would prefer to spend more time among the people than sitting in a plush office signing files. A hands-on man, Karnataka's 18th chief minister H D Kumaraswamy is just that: accessible 24x7 and a mobile person.     His Janata Darshans and village stays have given him the edge over his predecessors of being a visible CM. Recently, he created history by being the first CM in the country to stay in the house of an HIV-positive family. `I wouldn't get all this exposure to problems by sitting in Vidhana Soudha and through reports and information. The Janata Darshans have given me a lot of visibility and appreciation. I was able to understand the problems of the physically challenged through these darshans. Besides, my visits to villages is to instil confidence among people that there is a government which cares for them,'' Kumaraswamy said.     Administering a coalition government, where each partner has its priorities and ideology to look after, is not an easy task. But during the last one year, Kumaraswamy has come up with a basketful of programmes. If it was giving a boost to Brand Bangalore by making Greater Bangalore happen, instilling confidence among Kannadigas along the border with Maharashtra by holding the Belgaum legislature session or coming to the rescue of farmers facing mounting debts with the promise of waiving loans taken from the cooperative sector, hopes have soared for the people.     Even as modalities of looking for alternative resources for waiving the cooperative loans are being worked out, the state government's gesture of giving agricultural loan at 4% interest has got an overwhelming response. Also, there has been support price and market intervention for onion, copra, tomato and other crops. `Loan at 4% interest is by no means a populist measure. It comes as a result of our deep understanding that availability of cheap credit is a principal need of agriculturists today,'' Kumaraswamy said.     In all these endeavours, the CM has the support of deputy chief minister B S Yediyurappa, who holds the purse strings. The Reserve Bank of India has appreciated Karnataka's fiscal reform measures while the Credit Rating Information Services of India Ltd. (CRISIL) has placed Karnataka in AA-grade based on the economic progress achieved. The 2006-2007 budget presented by him, for the first time, introduced the concept of gender based budgeting -- which helped to prioritise and orient public expenditure to reflect the concerns of women.     The floods in mid-2006 created havoc in 817 villages affecting 12 lakh people. Considering the gravity of the issue, the government put into place a plan to take up permanent relief measures in perennially flood-prone districts. And for the first time, 90 villages in Belgaum, Bijapur, Bagalkot, Raichur, Koppal and Gulbarga were shifted.     The new industrial policy 2006-2011 emphasised that proper infrastructure will result in industrialisation.     According to the CM: `Some of the best moments of my government have been when the district administration has moved with me to villages and brought relief to those who had lost hope that the administration will work for them, be it in the matter of employment, housing or provision of basic facilities like water and roads." HIGHLIGHTS • package of Rs 2,689.64 crore for six districts which reported high incidence of farmer suicides. The districts are Belgaum, Hassan, Chikmagalur, Chitradurga, Shimoga and Kodagu. • Considering ban on arrack. • Suvarna Karnataka Udyanavanagala Prathistana -- wherein all gardens and parks belonging to the government will be taken care of. • Swavalambana scheme -- lending money to women engaged in fishing at the rate of 4%. • Jawaharlal Nehru National Urban Renewal Mission scheme for improving quality of life of slumdwellers. • Karnataka is the only state next to Sikkim where decentralisation of power has been implemented in letter and spirit as envisaged in the 73rd amendment to the Constitution. IMPACT OF JANATA DARSHAN     AND VILLAGE STAYS • Soon after Kumaraswamy became the CM, a group of women from remote Entamuri village in Belgaum petitioned the CM on the acute water problem. The CM decided to get a first-hand account and visited the village late at night. Their problem was genuine. He immediately directed the Belgaum zilla panchayat CEO to do the needful and work was done in 28 days. A few days later, when Kumaraswamy revisited the village, he was welcomed with the entire place wearing a festive look. • A woman, who had done her M.A. and M.Ed., approached the CM. She was keen on appearing for the Karnataka Public Service Commission test, but her family's economic position did not permit her. She said she was considering suicide if justice was not done to her in the Janata Darshan. She was given placement as a telephone operator in the CM's office.
TIMES FOOD GUIDE Rock on     Imust be a rrrockstar maaaan! High energy music is being injected into my bloodstream as the Spice girls’ shimmery hot pants and Eric Clapton’s Versace suit float before my eyes. I am sizzling in the mega voltage buzz of this high-ceilinged industrial yet regal Hard Rock Café and trying to figure out what it has in common with Satya Sai baba and Eric Clapton. How come everything is so beeeeg? From the dramatically lit, split levels, performance areas and the mountains of food to the biceps of the young dudes here. And the DJ music bellows. Hullo! Hulloweeeee! I can’t hear my dinner companion at all. And then suddenly the live band takes over and appears, (somewhere near the ceiling) their raspy voices and intensity of the guitars throb in my soul. Now I can’t hear myself I think as I swiftly make molehills out of the mountains (eat my way through the menu), pay my bill and skidaddle past the Rock Shop (selling T-shirts and what-nots) into the night. The winsome threesome Saturday lunch with the stylish, winsome threesome (who’ve been to HRC’s all over the world and say Mumbai’s is amongst the best) makes me see the café afresh. The charming well-travelled industrialist Ankit Jain and his wife Rakhee Grover Jain along with Neerja Mehta bubble, “Its size and grandeur is mindblowing, it’s our favourite place to sing along and rock along.” The peaches and cream complexioned warm, friendly, smiling lovelies are creative gemologists and buddies since they were in nursery. We listen to music and nibble our way into the afternoon. I enjoy the teerth yatra of the rock memorabilia framed on the walls (courtesy, ever-helpful manager Karan Rattanchandani). Soft on Hard Rock Choose your time to match the schizophrenic personality of this café. It’s got a young and wannabe young, throbbing noisy boozy night avatar. And a more sedate, quiet one through the day. Like all things American, everything is outsized here (with prices to match). Recommended? Yummy, generously piled over with Pinto beans, served with sour cream and cheese, home made nachos (Rs 325 veg, Rs 375 non veg). Unerringly made legendary 10 oz burger (Rs 375), lightly seasoned beef, topped with bacon, cheese, served on a toasted malt bun (veg, cheese and chicken burgers too). A decent warm apple cobbler (Rs 250), okayish sandwiches (country club Rs 300) and a well stocked bar here. Hard facts Leathery potato skins (Rs 250 veg and Rs 300 with bacon), foamy and tasteless hot fudge brownie sundae (Rs 275) with a stodgy brownie too and onion rings (Rs 225) fried out of their minds. Some of the cocktails (The Hurricane tastes like watery fruit juice) and those aamchi Mumbai adaptations (paneer wrap Rs 250) chicken kababs (Rs 275) are avoidable. High decibel music levels are not meant for the faint of heart and old of age. It Rrrrrocks Kudos to Jay Singh and Sanjay Mehtani for hitting the sweet spot, parking India’s very first HRC in the spacious Bombay Dyeing mill compound, Parel, midway between North and South Mumbai. It’s open through the day and in the night serves up a seriously rocking buzz, live music (Tuesday and Thursday), mountains of typically American food (some of it worth trying) and friendly, swift service. Go, get a shot of the buzz and if you’re my age please go with the likes of my winsome threesome and you’ll rrrrock! P.S. I finally figured out the connection between Eric Clapton, (the first to gift his guitar to the founders in 1971) and Satya Sai Baba (guru of one of the founders). “Love all, serve all,” is Baba’s and HRC’s motto. They should add “Rock all”! FOODLINE Being in touch was never more simple or effortless, all thanks to the internet. Here’s sending some crisp, cool Udaipur winter your way and looking forward to hearing from you even as I work here for a week. Do keep calling and do keep smiling. Hard Rock Cafe Bombay Dyeing Mill Compound Pandurang Budhkar marg,Worli, Mumbai 400025.Tel.:243822888 Open 12.30 pm to late night.Cover Charger Rs 100 per couple on weekends RATING FOOD: 3.00 SERVICE: 3.25 AMBIENCE: 4
NO RESPITE Inflation hits two-year high TIMES NEWS NETWORK New Delhi: There seems to be no respite from price rise despite steps taken by the government. Inflation, measured by wholesale price index, touched 6.58% during the week-ended January 27 —the highest since December 11, 2004 —on account of higher food and manufactured goods prices. Inflation was estimated at 6.11% in the previous week and 4.04% during the corresponding period last year.     With little signs of a dip in prices and the effect of last year’s low base effect showing for some more time, economists predict inflation will remain in the 6-6.5% range for a few more weeks. Government’s political worry lines will only deepen, with elections round the corner.     Latest data showed that primary products, particularly food items, were the prime drivers of inflation with prices of fruits, milk, vegetables, egg, meat and fish rising fast. Onion retail is already at Rs 24 a kg. Manufactured goods, too, have played their part as companies have been passing on the increase in raw material costs to end-consumers, who still lap up white goods, mobiles and cars thanks to rising income levels.     With the middle-class and the lower income segments affected the most due to the steep rise in the monthly food bill, you could expect some duty cuts in the coming days as the government tries to contain prices. On the flip side, interest rates too could rise as Reserve Bank of India tries to rein in inflation by slowing down economic growth rates.     While the impact of interest rate hikes typically takes 12-18 months to show, economists believe duty cuts appeared to be the more likely step to control prices in the short-term. Besides, bankers said, RBI had raised rates only recently.     Last month, the Centre reduced import duties on cement, capital goods, steel, aluminium, copper and other industrial raw materials, as well as palm and sunflower oils. It is already faced with a demand to lower duty on petro goods, including fuels. For the moment, however, price rise has given enough fodder to BJP, the main opposition party, with party spokesperson Prakash Javadekar saying, “Nobody trusts the finance minister now. Prices are surging and there is no check on inflation.”     But the Congress, while expressing concern over inflation, said there was no magic wand to contain it. “There is no switch on or switch off button... Let us wait for the Budget as war against inflation has been launched,” party spokesperson Abhishek Singhvi confessed.     “There is no single measure that can take care of the situation since there is pressure from all sides. There is demand pull, there are cost push factors like costlier raw materials and there are supply side constraints. The government and RBI have taken steps but the rise in primary product prices is most worrisome. We have ignored agriculture for a long time and it is now showing,” said D K Joshi, principal economist with Crisil.
‘Steps to curb price rise have failed’ Central Minister Says This Is ‘Worrisome’ And Has Emerged As A ‘Minus Point’ For UPA TIMES NEWS NETWORK New Delhi: Rising prices of commodities and vegetables and the pointed manner in which opposition parties have made use of popular discontent over price rise to target the Congress during electioneering in Punjab and Uttarakhand has pushed up levels of unease within the ruling UPA.     Union minister for rural development Raghuvansh Prasad Singh said that measures to contain inflation had failed and the situation had become “worrisome”. He said that this had become a “minus point” for UPA and “this is unfortunate”.     The minister, who belongs to RJD, has spoken publicly on what many in government have been grumbling about in private. The rise in prices of food items like dals, wheat, pulses, sugar, vegetables and fruit have come in handy for BJP and Shiromani Akali Dal to target the Congress in Punjab.     The Akalis have laid considerable emphasis on the Congress government’s “inability” to keep prices down and this, along with corruption, has been their talking point. SAD has felt that these issues are potent enough and has steered cleared of any form of religious appeals. In Uttarakhand, too, BJP has attacked the N D Tiwari government for its failure of keep a check on prices. BJP managers feel that the Congress can be hit hard on counts of both administrative ineptitude and corruption fuelling price rise. The opposition believes that this will yield it substantial benefits at the hustings.     Even in Delhi, BJP has zeroed in on price rise as the central campaign issue for the Municipal Corporation of Delhi elections due next month. Anger of a section of the population over demolitions and sealings could provide a handle to BJP, but the party feels that besides these issues, price rise affects the largest section of Delhi’s citizens.     In Congress, too, there are worries over inflation denting the party’s prospects. But while the party is mounting pressure on government to take some demonstrable measures to curb inflation, opinion is divided on what can exactly be done. Some steps like easing controls and duties on imports have been taken, but the government is not very clear whether exports should be frozen. With onion being sold at Rs 26/kg in the markets, the government does not enjoy much leeway as public anger has begun to reflect itself as it did in the Mumbai corporation polls where price rise was an important factor besides other like the July 2006 suburban train blasts.
Onions Minus Tears Increasing supply best way to control inflation     The price rise in food articles — onions, fruit, milk, vegetables and pulses — is really starting to hurt. Ruling at about 20 per cent over the same period last year, food prices are driving the present inflation of 6.7 per cent. Let us cut through the babble of economists, politicians and bankers and try to figure out why prices are rising and where economy managers are making mistakes. Is the current inflation essentially caused by too much money chasing too few goods, as the Reserve Bank (RBI) would have us believe? RBI raised short-term lending rates for banks six times since April 2005, but that has had little effect on the growth of credit. This is not surprising because in an open economy with growing financial flows banks can access credit at competitive rates from other sources. RBI has, therefore, resorted to a more drastic move: raising the reserves that banks need to keep with them by 0.5 per cent since January 1 this year to 6 per cent of its deposits. This would make money dear for manufacturing, which, in fact, is not principally behind the current price rise. It is very unlikely that high money supply and credit growth have contributed to a rise in prices of foodstuffs. Their prices have risen because production has not kept pace with demand. So what is RBI trying to achieve? By making money dear, it will exacerbate supply constraints in manufacturing and create inflationary conditions in this sector. RBI should be reconciled to high money supply growth in an open and rapidly growing economy. It should restrict itself to easing credit in order to promote productivity and innovation.     India’s focus ought to remain on high growth, even if that entails an interim inflation level of 5-5.5 per cent — interim, because that would come down when supply side constraints are eased. Attacking inflation too hard through interest rate hikes would hit growth and jobs. Does this prescription sound harsh for those doing their grocery shopping? Not really. Their immediate problems can be solved through imports, while the real challenge lies in doubling the trend growth rate of agriculture from 2 per cent to 4 per cent. The government has done too little, too late by reducing petrol and diesel prices by Rs 2 and Re 1 a litre, respectively. Petrol prices can be cut further if the government slashes the tax component. What else can it do to ease structural constraints to growth? The government should make India an easier place to do business by attacking the red tape and cutting expenditure that does not create assets. With such steps, we can have jobs and growth with low prices, our onions without tears.
Driving’s cheaper, but life’s still hard FUEL RATES CUT TO CURB INFLATION TIMES NEWS NETWORK New Delhi: Faced with rising discontent over price rises, the government on Thursday was forced to offer a placebo in the form of a cut in petrol and diesel prices by Rs 2 and Re 1 respectively.     In Delhi, petrol will now cost Rs 42.85 a litre and diesel Rs 30.25 a litre. In Haryana and nine other states, including Uttarakhand, Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu, the reduction will be more than what the oil ministry announced because these states had slashed local levies to take some of the sting out of the steep increase in prices affected in June.     The decision was the second step by the government, now clearly in inflation-combat gear, this week to rein in rising prices. Earlier this week, the RBI had raised the requirement for banks to hold cash in a desperate bid to reduce the amount of money in circulation.     But with inflation, measured by the Wholesale Price Index touching 6.72 % during the week ended February 2, it was forced to hit the panic station. Indeed, within hours of the release of the alarming data, the government announced that it was preparing to allow more imports to augment supplies and ease the price situation.     Commerce minister Kamal Nath said, “High inflation was due to supply constraints and the industry department is looking at the gaps. If the need arises, imports will be made more flexible.’’ Almost simultaneously, his secretary Ajay Dua indicated that duties on cement, metals and paper might be reduced.     By evening, the entire government was in fire-fighting mode, with Prime Minister Manmohan Singh and finance minister P Chidambaram chipping in with placatory statements to soothe jangled nerves at Congress headquarters.     “As far as inflation is concerned, we have a multi-pronged strategy...I think in the next couple of weeks, you will see positive results of the action that we have taken,’’ Singh said.     The reduction in petrol and diesel prices brought out the anxiety of the government, marking a major climbdown from its stand that it would not cut their prices before international oil prices settled below $50 a barrel. On Thursday, the international crude price hovered at about $58 a barrel. Fuel group not major cause of inflation New Delhi: The reduction in petrol and diesel prices was also meant to be a substitute for the government’s failure to control the prices of primary food articles. Congress sources confirmed this. The poll winds from Punjab and Uttarakhand suggest that the price rise may have begun to extract a political cost, with the rivals already seeing the issue as a potent weapon to strike at Congress.     The measure, which is the government’s second move to reduce prices in three months, may bring down the cost of daily commuting, but will not suffice. Economists estimated that its impact on inflation could be as little as 0.05%.     In any case, the fuel group was not the major contributor to inflation, if the government’s own data is to be believed. The rise to 6.73% was mainly on account of higher food prices as not just pulses, fruits and vegetables became more expensive but prices of pork, meat and eggs rose much faster. Manufactured goods too played their part.     The cost of daily living is rising due to gaps in supply of ‘primary articles’—wheat, pulses, onions and vegetables—and not because of high fuel prices. Primary articles, consisting of two categories of food and non-food articles, have a weight of 22.02% in the WPI on which inflation is based. Motor fuels are part of fuel, power, light and lubricants category, which has a weightage of 14.23%. Manufactured products have 63.75% weight in WPI. Inflation has risen to 6.73% for the week ended February 3 from 6.58% in the previous week.     The cut will force the Centre to go for a duty rejig to partly offset the impact on stateowned oil marketing firms, while the remaining loss will be covered through oil bonds already approved. The oil companies will lose Rs 8 crore daily on motor fuels after the reduction. But there are doubts over how far the reduction will go in taming inflation.
Why netas know their onions Shankar Raghuraman | TNN     How do you know when an incumbent government is likely to lose the elections? Psephologists may have their fancy methods, but if you can’t make sense of the ‘swing factor’ or the ‘coefficient of opposition unity’ here’s a thumb rule: If your local dhaba has stopped giving you sliced onions as part of the salad on election eve, netaji is in serious trouble.     At least on two famous occasions, incumbent governments have learnt this home truth of Indian politics the hard way. Perhaps the better known of them was in 1980, when Indira Gandhi was seeking to return to power after the post-Emergency 1977 rout had put India’s first non-Congress central government in the driver’s seat. It would be facile to suggest that the prices of onions alone put Indira back at the helm, but she did turn the shortage of the ubiquitous bulb into a tear-jerker with great electoral effect. Onion price at the time was Rs 10 per kg, which might today seem too little to be getting worked up about, but remember this was a quarter of a century ago. Adjusting for inflation, that would be equivalent to about Rs 67 per kg today.     Almost two decades later, on the eve of the November 1998 assembly elections in Delhi, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan and Mizoram, onions were back on political centrestage with prices having stayed above Rs 40 per kg for weeks and in some markets reaching even a whopping Rs 60 per kg (equivalent to over Rs 80 per kg today).     The BJP was in power at the Centre and in Rajasthan and Delhi.     In both states, the party was almost wiped out in the elections, winning 33 of the 200 seats in Rajasthan and 15 of the 70 in Delhi. Many believe that Digvijay Singh survived the anti-incumbency wave in MP as he was able to convince the electorate that it was the Centre that was responsible for the skyrocketing onion prices.     Relative to these situations, today’s onion prices of about Rs 25 per kg may seem modest, but you can bet it’s still giving those in power sleepless nights.
...but here penny pinches TIMES NEWS NETWORK     It doesn’t feel like a Tam-Bram house any more,’’ says Laxmi Venkat (50), a teacher and resident of Matunga in Mumbai. “With udad at Rs 60 a kilo from Rs 36 three months ago, it’s cheaper to make omlettes for breakfast, only my fatherin-law would leave home,’’ she adds.     Like the Venkats, many of the city’s households say that skyrocketing prices are forcing them to change their menus, monthly budgets, vacation plans and dreams of ever owning a house. “We are fortunate that we are able to manage without cutting down on basics like vegetables, dal and other basics because with an 85-year-old in the house, it’s difficult to change the menu. This means that my vegetable and grocery bill has risen by 25% from three months ago and this is really hurting my savings. But when my bai tells me about the marriage in her village she cannot go to as she cannot afford an ST bus ticket if she has to out food on the table, I realise I’m mulch better off,’’ says Venkat. For chartered account Sunil Maheshwari, the rising prices have meant that he has had to postpone buying a house as the interest rates have gone up. “My plans have gone awry and a house is beyond my capacity as of now,’’ he says. But Maheshwari too chooses to count his blessings. His income too has gone up. “On the other hand, the economy is booming, the stock market is up and I am making more money,’’ he adds.     When the Menons got their son, studying for his SSC board exams, enrolled to a popular coaching class in Dombivli they knew that they would have to make sacrifices of a kind that they never had when their elder daughter attended her coaching class seven years ago. “His coaching class fee is over Rs 25,000, four times the amount I had to shell out for my daughter. This has meant us having to alter our lifestyle in little ways such as walking to our office instead of taking a rickshaw, preparing coriander chutney instead of our normal fare of onion chutney or buying eggs only when necessary instead of perennially stocking up our fridge with eggs,’’ said Rema Menon, a bank employee.     Younger couples have different expenses but the pinch is no less. The hardest hit are just married couples who are all set to start a new life with the uncertainty of how to afford a roof over their heads looming large. While some rent one, others settle a house in the far flung suburbs and spend the next twenty years paying off their home loans. Yet others prefer to wait. Like Lynn Mendonca and Chris D’Souza who continue to stay at their respective parents’ house despite having had a register marriage over a year ago. They have kept their plans to buy a new house on hold until they get a better paying job someday.     And it’s not only families that are feeling the pinch of feeding four or more mouths. Even singletons in the city, who rarely noticed how much they were paying for a bagful of veggies as they chatted on their cellphones, are finding prices out of control. “When my bai told me to buy chicken twice a month instead of once as this would work out cheaper than making vegetables, I thought she’d gone crazy,’’ says Rohan Paranjpe, a manager with a private radio station. “But she’s right. I just bought a cheap fridge but I can’t afford anything to put in it,’’ he says in amazement.
UP, UP AND AWAY ...that’s the way inflation is going. So if you’ve been wondering why your rupee isn’t stretching these days, Sunday Times gives you a crash course in the whys and hows of price rise Shankar Raghuraman & Siddhartha | TNN What is inflation and how is it measured? Inflation in the everyday sense refers to an increase in prices. The problem is to arrive at a single figure for inflation when prices of different commodities are changing at varying rates. This is done by constructing a price index. The index essentially arrives at an overall rate of price increase by assigning different weights (jargon for how important or unimportant a particular commodity is) to different items. Thus wheat or rice, which everybody consumes on a daily basis, will have a relatively high weight, whereas glass would have a low weight. Prices of items with a large weight would be more crucial in determining the overall average than those that have low or negligible weights. Why are there so many price indices? Different groups of people are affected by price variations very differently. If, for instance, you are not building a house, the price of cement may be irrelevant to you, but for a builder or the cement manufacturer it is the most important item. In India, therefore, we have five different types of price indices. One of these is the Wholesale Price Index (WPI), which measures changes in wholesale prices. The inflation rate most often cited is the one calculated on the basis of the WPI. The annual inflation rate for a particular week tells you how much the average level of prices of the commodities tracked by the WPI has risen compared to the corresponding week a year (or 52 weeks to be precise) earlier. It is important to recognise that the inflation rate going down does not mean prices are declining. It only means the rate at which prices are going up has slowed down. Why does the official rate seem to understate price rise? The official rate, as we have seen is based on the WPI. What the consumer actually deals with, of course, is not wholesale prices, but retail prices. Also, while the WPI tracks virtually all commodities, any one consumer may consume some of them only very rarely. Each of the four consumer price indices, therefore, tries to measure the overall price increase in a typical consumption basket for a particular kind of consumer. These are the CPIs for agricultural labour (AL), industrial workers (IW), urban non-manual employees (UNME) and rural labour (RL). What explains the current spurt in prices? The latest surge in inflation has essentially been spurred by very high increases in some specific commodities. For instance, while the overall i n fl at i o n rate for the week ended Feb 3 was 6.73%, prices of pulses have risen almost 24% over the last year, fruits and vegetables are 19% costlier, prices of basic metals have gone up by close to 17%, cement is roughly 16% more expensive and edible oils are 16% dearer than they were on Feb 4, 2006. In general, prices of primary articles — things which are not manufactured — have risen at 12.3%, much faster than manufactured items (6.4%). The third major category in the WPI fuel, power, light & lubricants has witnessed just a 2.3% increase, thanks largely to the fact that oil prices are more subdued than the previous year. This also explains why the inflation rate measured by the CPIs is significantly higher (see graph) than that measured by the WPI. Things like wheat, pulses or fruits & vegetables understandably account for a much larger weight in the CPIs and the fact that prices     of these have risen faster than the overall average means the CPIs are also going up more sharply than the WPI.     What measures is the government taking to rein in inflation? It has banned the export of some items like wheat, milk powder and pulses and could ban onion exports as well. It has also imported wheat to augment domestic supplies. Another step taken has been to reduce customs duties on metals, cement, edible oils etc. Petrol and diesel prices have been cut. Besides these, the RBI has hiked interest rates and the cash-reserve ratio. The idea behind both these measures is to reduce the supply of money, the theory being that when a larger amount of money chases the same amount of goods, prices are bound to go up and conversely they are bound to fall when less money is in circulation. Why have these measures not worked? Some have. For instance, the rise in the wheat index is down from about 17.4% at the beginning of the year to just over 11% in the first week of February. Similarly, the rise in cement prices has also been moderated. An earlier ban on exports of sugar has meant that it is one of the few items that is 10% cheaper than it was a year ago. The RBIs measures have been less effective for two reasons: First, trying to control inflation by squeezing money supply is at the best of times a medium term strategy rather than a quick fix. Most economists agree that it would take anything between a year and 18 months for the full impact to show. Secondly, where prices are rising mainly because of supply constraints as in pulses, where domestic and global output is inadequate squeezing money     supply by itself can do little. COINING INFLATION And you thought inflation was a modern phenomenon. It dates back to the third century when Romans rulers produced the first recorded case of inflation by debasing their coins. THE PRICE OF WAR The 20th century saw the worst inflation. Countries printed excessive amounts of currency to pay for World War I. The German economy almost collapsed in 1923 after hyperinflation. A meal that cost one mark at the start of WW I cost 1 trillion marks by 1923. And Hitler rode on the support of a ruined middle class. SAMBA RUMBLE Living with inflation? Latin America can teach a lesson or two as they’ve lived with it through the 20th C because of independent monetary policies. Inflation here averaged 160% per year in 1980s and 235% in the early 1990s. Brazil’s inflation exceeded 1000% per year in four of the five years between 1989-93. COMING AT A COST World War II gave people a tough time too. The worst inflation occurred in Hungary in 1946 when the pengo drowned in zeroes. By July 1946, it took 400 quadrillion pengoe to purchase 1 forint (the new currency). OIL’S NOT WELL After countries began floating their currencies in 1973, the OPEC oil crisis hit, producing an inflation-inducing supply shock that lasted for the rest of the decade. By the time the second oil shock hit in 1979, unemployment had risen, growth declined and inflation worsened. Developed countries suffered double digit inflation while in developing countries, it hit the triple digit mark.
MARKET BUZZ Fresh stock stabilises veggie prices TIMES NEWS NETWORK Navi Mumbai: The prices of onions and other vegetables in the wholesale market of APMC in Vashi have stabilised with the arrival of plenty of fresh stocks.     Last fortnight there was a scare of increase in vegetable prices due to non-availability of fresh stock from various parts of Maharashtra to the APMC wholesale market.     Director of the onion-potato section of APMC Ashok Valunj said: “Due to fresh stock of onions and potatoes from the farms in Nashik and Junnar (near Pune), the price of onions have stabilised in the range of Rs 90 and Rs 110 per 10 kg. The price of potatoes is now between Rs 50 and Rs 70 per 10 kg.’’     In the beginning of the year, the price of onions had touched an alarming Rs 160-170 per 10 kg, causing a lot of concern among traders and consumers alike.     The following are some of the wholesale rates of some vegetables: tomato —Rs 80 to Rs 100 per 10 kg; cauliflower — Rs 30 to Rs 40 per 10 kg; cabbage—Rs 30 to Rs 40 per 10 kg; ladies finger—Rs 100 to Rs 120 per 10 kg.     toireporter@timesgroup.com 
EDIT PAGE MAILBOX MY TIMES, MY VOICE Unshackle Higher Education     In ‘Picture Imperfect’ (Jan 30), Kaushik Basu recommends star salaries for professors in order to attract people to research and academics. At present there is a huge difference between academic and corporate salaries. The salaries of teachers at management institutes is a case in point—they are governed by AICTE norms, but students who pass out of these institutes are worth more the very day they are recruited by corporates. In a consumerist society, this anomaly downgrades a teacher’s social status. The respect s/he commands by virtue of being a scholar is merely token.     Universities and institutes of higher education should recognise merit. This presupposes accountability and suitable action on students’ feedback on their teachers’ performance. Instead, we see excessive dependence on paper qualifications and research papers, some of which, unfortunately, are of a dubious nature. Most importantly, higher education should be freed from political and bureaucratic power. Unless merit is recognised, teachers will have no incentive to do their best. This is one important reason why higher education should be privatised. V Rajaraman, VIA E-MAIL Mere Hogwash     This is in response to your editorial ‘Onions Minus Tears’ (Feb 16). Even though the UPA government may claim that the prices of fuel have been cut to check inflation, the real motive is the impending assembly elections, especially in UP where they are keen to capture power. It is a known fact that since the UPA came to power, the prices of essential items have almost doubled. The finance minister has not taken any tangible steps to curtail the rise, but is instead bent on introducing new taxes to burden the common man. We sincerely wish the FM would reintroduce standard deduction and increase the tax exemption limit. N Mahadevan, VIA E-MAIL
Nothing To Smile About Inflation has government on the back foot By PARANJOY GUHA THAKURTA The spectre of inflation has come to haunt those who had been crowing about how fast the Indian economy is growing. There have been knee-jerk reactions from the UPA government that claims its economic policies are for the aam aadmi. What is currently taking place is the worst possible form of inflation, driven by sharp increases in prices of food products. This, in turn, is eroding the real incomes of the poor the most.     All the economic gains that the government had been tom-tomming about stand negated by this single setback. Inflation is certain to erode the popularity of the ruling coalition all over the country, particularly in states where elections are expected. The Congress party is on the defensive — internal criticism of the stewardship of the economy by prime minister Manmohan Singh and finance minister P Chidambaram has mounted with the government being attacked by both the BJP and the Left.     The move to cut retail prices of petrol and diesel, the Reserve Bank’s decision to increase the cash reserve ratio of banks, the stopping of forward trading in certain pulses and steps to ban exports of particular food products and reduce import duties on others have all come rather late in the day. The impact of these decisions would be felt on the price level only after a few weeks, if not months. Meanwhile, the government would be vulnerable to more strident attacks from its critics for mismanaging supplies of essential articles.     As the rate of inflation measured by the wholesale price index edges towards the 7 per cent mark, no homemaker worth her salt believes that prices have gone up only by this proportion over a year. It is not just the reality of the marketplace but the fine print in government reports that tell a different story. RBI has pointed out that over the last year or so, the wholesale prices of pulses are up by more than 25 per cent, wheat prices have increased by 15 per cent, fruits by 12 per cent and milk by over 6 per cent. If anything, these are underestimates — consumer prices are much higher.     The WPI is compiled by the ministry of statistics and programme implementation. Figures put together by the ministry of labour paint a different picture. In December, when the WPI was up by 5.6 per cent, various consumer price indices (CPIs) were registering a far faster rate of inflation — the CPI for agricultural labourers had risen by nearly 9 per cent while the CPI for urban nonmanual employees had increased by nearly 7 per cent. Since the CPIs have been consistently higher than the WPI since November 2005, the short point is that even if one goes by government statistics (inaccurate as they can be) the current rate of inflation is at double-digit levels.     This is pretty bad news for those in power. Inflation is one economic phenomenon that politicians understand rather well — the prices of onions or sugar have been the subject matter of powerful slogans that have contributed to electoral losses. To repeat the evocative phrase recently used by the RBI’s deputy governor Rakesh Mohan, inflation is “a tax on the poor against which no hedges are available”. Who does not know that food comprises a much larger portion of the expenditure of the poor than the well-off ?     Inflation, in fact, indirectly transfers incomes from the poor to the rich (whose profits go up faster than the rate at which prices rise) and hence needs to be curbed as soon as possible, particularly in highly unequal and stratified societies such as ours.     A combination of two broad sets of factors, demand-pull and cost-push, contribute to inflation. Till the end of August, 2006, inflation was largely cost-push and driven by high oil prices. International prices of crude oil crashed from over $75 a barrel in early-August to just over $50 a barrel by December. But domestic retail prices did not go down commensurately. The government wanted to protect its tax revenues and the bottom lines of oil companies. It is now paying a stiff price for this delay in rolling back prices of petrol and diesel. RBI could have upped the CRR earlier. It did not. Industrialist friends of the powers-that-be did not want interest rates to harden. In keeping corporate captains happy, the government ended up antagonising the person on the street (not Dalal Street).     There is little that Chidambaram can hope to do in the coming Budget that could tame the inflation monster. A reduction in peak customs tariffs is on the anvil. Clearly, different ministries (including agriculture, commerce and finance) need to work in closer coordination with one another to better manage food supplies.     In the first press conference Manmohan Singh had addressed as finance minister in June 1991, he had scoffed at Rajiv Gandhi’s pre-election promise to roll back prices of various products if his party returned to power. The Congress party was wild with what the economist and technocrat had innocently remarked, because he knew better than others how difficult it is to bring prices down. He had to eat his words. The prime minister has hopefully become more politically savvy since then. His government has no choice but to pull out all stops to douse the inflationary fires.     The writer is director, School of Convergence.
Garcia's, Tardeo (tel: 6452 2501) Garcia's has 10 outlets across the city and most of them are simply takeaway places. Tardeo is the only outlet where you can actually sit down and eat your pizza. The chain changes its offers every few weeks, so there's always something new you can opt for. Three more outlets, at Versova, Juhu and Powai, are also opening shortly. WHAT'S THERE: The two most asked-for pizzas are the Garcia's Special Non Veg and the Diavolo. Garcia offers a good range, and you can always go ahead and create your own pizza. They also have happy hours, where you can buy a large pizza for the price of a medium one and so on. TOPPINGS: Capsicum, mushroom, bell peppers, spinach, corn, baby corn, cheese, black olives, pineapple, jalapeno, sundried tomato, onion, spring onion, basil, oregano, ham, sausage, chicken sausage, tuna, barbequed chicken, roast chicken, Mexican chicken and spiced chicken sausage. SIDE ORDERS: Garlic bread, chilly cheese toast and beverages.
Duty cuts likely on soya & palm oil, base metals TIMES NEWS NETWORK New Delhi: The government appears set to slash import duty on base metals, soya oil and palm oil in the budget in a bid to tame inflation, which dipped marginally to 6.63% during the week-ended February 10.     With the rising cost of pulses, wheat and onions raising a political uproar, the government is likely to extend the ban on exports of wheat and pulses till March 2008, besides allowing zero duty import of commodities as part of its strategy to augment domestic supply and check further price rise.     Sources said the move to extend the ban on export of pulses and allowing zero duty import of wheat was discussed by the Cabinet committee on prices, while a reduction in import duty on soya oil by 10% and that on crude and refined palm oil by 5% each has been endorsed by a committee of secretaries earlier this month.     The government is likely to import two lakh tonne of pulses to augment supplies. Between April and December 2006, India, which is a net importer of pulses, has already imported 16.6 lakh tonne of pulses estimated to be worth Rs 2,600 crore, 19% higher than the 14.05 lakh tonne imported during the corresponding period last year.     The CoS has also recommended canalising the export of maize for six months, besides initiating more steps to check the export of onions since there is large demand from Pakistan, Sri Lanka and Bangladesh. According to the government’s estimates, onion exports are expected to rise nearly 50% to 11.5 lakh tonne and steps like more stringent norms for government clearance to export consignments are in the offing.
CAMPAIGN TRAIL Food min skips price control meet Panel Decides To Ask Centre To Include Pulses In Public Distribution System Yogesh Naik & Rukmini Shrinivasan I TNN Mumbai: For state food and civil supplies minister Sunil Tatkare, the poll campaign for the forthcoming Zilla Parishad elections seems more important than attending a meeting convened by chief minister Vilasrao Deshmukh to discuss spiralling prices. All states in the country have set up a committee to work out measures to control prices. The first meeting in Maharashtra was held in Mantralaya on Monday.     Sources in Mantralaya said that Tatkare was busy campaigning in his home district, Raigad.”I do not know what has transpired in the meeting. I am campaigning for the polls. I am responsible for the campaign in my district as well as Ratnagiri and Sindhudurg. The elections are on March 11, and I have to work hard,’’ Tatkare said when contacted by TOI on Monday evening.     However, Mantralaya officials felt that the minister should have been present for the crucial meeting. Others who attended were deputy chief minister R R Patil and minister of state for food and civil supplies, Baba Siddique. A regulatory committee under chief secretary D K Sankaran has been set up to monitor price rises.     One minister in Mantralaya observed, “Raigad is just one hour by catamaran from Mantralaya. Tatkare could have made it for the meeting and then left.’’     The 12-member committee was established after Prime Minister Manmohan Singh wrote to the states asking them to set up monitoring mechanisms to curb hoarding of essential goods and spiralling prices. The committee decided on Monday to ask the central government to include pulses like tur dal and gram under the Public Distribution System (PDS) until the prices stabilise as the poor are no longer able to afford pulses at market rates. “Maharashtra produces very little of pulses and most is bought from private traders or is imported. We will ask the central government to allow us to distribute pulses along with rice, wheat and sugar at ration shops to tide over this crisis,’’ said a senior official who attended the meeting. If this is implemented, Maharashtra will be the first such state in the country to do it.     The state government will also ask the Centre to exempt other essential commodities from futures trading keeping in mind rising prices — pulses have already been exempt. The state will soon receive 60,000 metric tons of wheat from the centre which will be made available to ration shops within a month, the chief minister said.     With the state producing 18.5 lakh ton onions last year and 21.18 lakh tons expected this year, speculative hoarding of onions was clearly the cause of the current high price of onions, the committee agreed. As a result, the police and district authorities have been asked to step up raids on hoarders of essential commodities like onions. In addition, district collectors have been asked to provide space for onion farmers to sell their produce directly to consumers, as is allowed in the Agricultural Produce Marketing Committee (APMC) Act.     From April to December last year, the state conducted 2,146 raids on persons hoarding essential commodities, arrested 3,012 people and chargesheeted 1,945.
Wake-up Call State polls give a jolt to Congress     These are difficult times for Congress. First, the party blundered on its plan for UP. Second, the shadow of Ottavio Quattrocchi, an accused in the Bofors scam, has returned to haunt the party. Third, the party has been voted out of office in two significant states. Manipur can only be a small consolation for the defeats in Punjab and Uttarakhand. BJP, despite being a house divided, has got a fresh lease of life and hope ahead of the crucial battle in UP. It is obvious that anti-incumbency has led to the party’s defeat in Punjab and Uttarakhand. One big factor that contributed to the groundswell against Congress has been the failure of state and central governments to contain inflation. The economic growth picture may look pretty. However, prices of essentials have shot up in recent months. After all, onions win elections in India. One of the reasons that helped Congress to turn the tide against NDA during the 2004 parliamentary elections was the slogan that it identified with the aam aadmi. It appears that the party has been unable to deliver on the perception. The failure to rein in inflation on prices of essential goods could only have turned the aam aadmi against the party.     Congress did not show the political imagination to understand the disquiet. In Punjab, it was unable to strike a deal with the Left or BSP and counter the consolidation of Akali Dal and BJP votes. Congress’s inability to present a united front in Uttarakhand gave the state in a platter to BJP. Quite apart from party-political calculations, however, today’s electorates demand inclusive development, and politicians are somewhat behind the curve in latching on to this. The losses in the two states are bound to have an impact on central policies. The Left, a crucial partner of the UPA, could up the ante on economic issues. Within Congress, there are sections sceptical of the present SEZ policy and the proposal to allow entry to foreign retail chains. A convergence of these two sections is possible and that could stymie policy-making. Half way into completing its term in office, the UPA government has to revisit the promise of reforms with a human face. Economic growth that only increases inequalities would backfire on any incumbent government. Manmohan Singh has to ensure that inclusive growth does not remain a slogan.
Dark Badal over Cong future Anand Soondas | TNN Chandigarh: Behind a rack of empty chairs, a few women, their faces turned away from the Prime Minister who was addressing a rally in Ludhiana, were caught on camera guffawing. It’s not certain what they were laughing at — it could have been promises of ‘cheap atta’ and ‘dal’ when prices of onions were forcing them to use more tomatoes, something unthinkable on a Punjabi plate — but the signs were ominous.     Capt Amarinder Singh should have taken the photograph more seriously.     On Tuesday, just like the women who turned their backs on Manmohan Singh, Punjab voters gave Congress the cold shoulder. A resurgent Akali-BJP combine wrested 67 seats in a House of 117. Shiromani Akali Dal (Badal) leader Sukhbir Singh Badal said in New Delhi that his father Parkash Singh Badal would be the next chief minister.     At Lambi from where he won, Badal senior said, ‘‘People have entrusted a big responsibility on us and I seek the cooperation of everybody including the opposition.’’ He wouldn’t pursue politics of vendetta, Badal added.     Amarinder submitted his resignation to Governor S F Rodrigues. He, however, wouldn’t accept that anti-incumbency led to the drubbing. ‘‘Congress has done well overall. But in the urban areas price rise was perhaps a factor. The rural electorate was with us,’’ he said.     Even exit polls went awry. Congress, with 43 seats, did better than the doomsday predictions but was felled b y three fundamental ‘I’s: incumbency, inflation and infighting.     In a super-charged campaign that saw both vitriol and violence, the machinations of Sukhbir Badal, a University of California management graduate, hit the right chords. He promised development, transparent boards, subsidised food and a re-look at the SEZs. He more or less blamed the Congress government for the spiralling inflation. That stuck and hurt too.     Congress leaders failed to project a cohesive fighting unit. Differences between the CM and his PPCC chief Shamsher Singh Dullo had turned into some kind of a joke. And, there were an amazing 29 Congress rebels in the fray.     BJP’s performance surprised everyone. It jacked up its tally from three in 2002 to 19, a sign that Hindu voters were back in the party’s kitty. There’s talk now that a strengthened BJP will not settle for anything less than deputy CM’s post.
BIRYANI
Fresh start: Price war eases inflation blues Sujit John | TNN Bangalore: It’s the Reliance mobile phone story all over again, but on another front. About 60,000 people walked into the 11 Reliance Fresh stores across Bangalore over the last weekend. There were crowds right from 8.30 in the morning and right through to 9 pm to pick up vegetables and fruits.     Even the local push-cart vendors are now said to be making their purchases here and the competing outlets of Fabmall and Heritage Foods’ Fresh@ because of the extremely attractive prices—potatoes at Rs 7.90 or Rs 8 a kg, when the market price is Rs 10-12 or more; tomatoes at Rs 2.25 or Rs 2.50 a kg (market price is over Rs 3.25) and onions at Rs 8 a kg (market price over Rs 10).     Reliance’s Monsoon Hungama package in 2003 that offered a multimedia mobile phone with a connection for an upfront payment of Rs 501 saw massive queues that included carpenters, rickshawpullers and push-cart vendors. What’s happening now in vegetables and fruits is similar. And for consumers, generally reeling under high inflation, this price war couldn’t have come at a better time. Fabmall actually started the price war this time in a limited way, pricing pototoes at Rs 8 a kg. Observers say this was in anticipation of Reliance’s entry. And it had the desired impact. Such was the run on Fabmall’s potato stocks that it compelled outlets to impose a 3 kg maximum purchase restriction.     Reliance entered soon after, on February 21, pricing potatoes at Rs 7.90 and a range of other vegetables at lower than market price. These outlets too soon imposed maximum purchase restrictions to discourage bulk-buying by road-side and push-cart vendors.     Pranab Barua, CEO of Trinethra Super Retail, which owns Fabmall and which was -recently taken over by the Aditya Birla group, says the company is selling at lower margins and pricing some products aggressively to attract consumers to the stores. “Besides, now that we are working together with the Aditya Birla group, we have the opportunity to buy more and buy from more locations, which is lowering our procurement costs.,’’ he says.     However, some prices do not look sustainable at all. Reliance was selling tomatoes at Rs 2.25 a kg on a day when push-cart vendors were selling the same at Rs 3.50. “The break-even price would be somewhere in between,’’ says Santosh Unni, head (operations) of Heritage Foods. Still, the situation is worrying traditional traders. Ramesh Chandra Lahoti, president of the Bangalore Wholesale Food Grains and Pulses Merchants’ Association, admits that kirana stores and his own wholesale trade is no longer safe. “We will have to change. May be we will become suppliers to big companies,’’ he says.
CURRY-LICIOUS...! You don’t need to go to Goa to gorge on an authentic Fish Curry Rice. There are several restaurants in aamchi Mumbai where you can get Pomfret curries that foodies swear by. And not strangely, the best aren’t necessarily Goan. Zeenia Baria and Sanaya Chavda go eating out and come up with a shortlist of eateries where the Pomfret Curry is reportedly to die for...
TIMES FOOD GUIDE The world’s your oyster Rashmi Uday Singh     I’m convinced that the world is a small dish with many big flavors. It’s not only getting smaller by the minute but also getting shrink-wrapped into a teeny weeny delicious package. Here I am, on this plane, tapping on my laptop while biting into the exquisitely crunchy, yet poetically buttery croissant as only the French can make it. Chic yet comfy, elegant yet welcoming, Air France wings me to my paradise-in-perpetuity, Paris. And I am writing about a Chinese restaurant in Mumbai. The magic of connectivity and d i s s o l v i n g b o u n d a r i e s kickstarts my A q u a r i a n adrenalin and even as my plane zooms me to my teerth yatra of the World’s best restaurants I feel connected to you. All the world’s definitely an oyster. How about popping it in our mouths? AROMAS OF CHINA Stop press! China has arrived in Andheri (via Bangalore). It comes in the form of a highceilinged, garagantuan, sprawling, brightly-lit restaurant and I’d been wanting to get there ever since it opened a few months ago. How to slip in unnoticed? The answer came in the form of the fabulous family Losa—booking under their name kept me incognito. So much so that when I called from the car, the hostess brusquely informed me they wouldn’t hold the table if we were even fifteen minutes late. Lord be praised, we managed to make it! My dapper, well-travelled dinner companion, Pedro Losa, President of a global engineering company, not only spent many years in China but was brought up in India too. An ideal palate to check out Chin-dian cuisine? AROMAS OF CHINA? Smartly uniformed waiters whisk us in to the wooden floored cheery restaurant, handsomely bound menus are presented and Francesca notes the décor with delight. A super cook herself, she has also modelled in her heyday and loves Indian food. Their petite daughter Alessandra has not only taken to India like a duck to water but has been received modelling offers too.     Pedro points out that tasting the duck is his way of checking a restaurant. The succulent Peking duck with plum sauce and pancakes meets with his approval. The spicy chicken lat mai with spring onion sits squarely on the Indo-China border. The veg dimsum (with peas) is avoidable so is the steamed pomfret spiced out of it's mind. Even seasonal veggies are robustly spiced and somewhat overcooked. Must trys? The unerringly cooked mushroom tofu and the lustily rendered lamb in pepper sauce come out winners. A hard crust mars the chocolate spring roll, while the crispy fried bun with custard is a medley of soft squishy textures to be enjoyed only by the initiated. Steamboat-buffs please note that this is also served with a choice of broth. Unfortunately we were too stuffed to try it. AMBIENCE AND SERVICE? Handsome and highceilinged with private dining rooms et al, this new restaurant is a swanky surprise in urban traffic-choked Andheri. If only they’d control shrieking kids and tone down that loud English music. While the service at our table was adequate, our neighboring tables complained about it being slow. The price of China? For a swish elegant space like this, the price points are good (Rs 95 dessert. Soups Rs 95. Chicken main courses Rs 195. rice noodles 140-195 (They even do a lunch buffet for Rs 245 per head) the portions are generous too.
HOT BUY CLASSIC CHUTNEYS! - INDIRA RODERICKS     After the successful launch of their range of pickles and conserves a little under two years ago, ITC Foods has now launched four mouthwatering chutneys, the perfect accompaniment to any meal. Although we did not think much of the ITC conserves that are already available in the market (there are so many jams, conserves and marmalades being sold already!), the mango chutneys, especially the ones with cumin and garlic were extremely good. But what was really awesome was the tamarind and date chutney, by far the best of its kind we have tasted. And thankfully, the product is still available.     This time, ITC has introduced four chutneys, with a medley of flavours - sweet, sour, tangy and spicy. There’s the carrot and black pepper variety where finely chopped carrot slices are mixed with aniseed and black pepper and the papaya and raisin chutney where papaya slices and pulp is blended with raisins, onion seeds (commonly called kalonji) and aniseeds. There are two more - for those who like their chutneys spicy they should try the the hot mango chutney that contains pieces and pulp of mango with chillie slices and flakes. And finally there’s our favourite, the tomato chillie chutney that contains tomato mixed with garlic paste, mango powder (amchur) and green chillie paste. The only tomato chutney available in the market so far is the tomato and raisin or date chutney manufactured by WIT India. But this combination of the sweetness of the tomatoes, the sourness of the mango powder and the spice coming from the green chillies make it a great combination.     These chutney are available at all stores and are reasonably priced at Rs. 55 for a 300 gms bottle. We particularily like the size of the bottle, not to big and not too small. Often if the size of the jar is small, the contents are over before you know it, on the other hand if it is a particularly large bottle, the contents stay in forever. This we think, is perfect.
NOOR MOHAMMADI FOR NALLI NIHARI This UP Mughlai breakfast speciality is made only at this restaurant, discovers MARK MANUEL     YOU can hear the muezzin calling the azaan from the minarets of a mosque outside Noor Mohammadi Hotel in Bhendi Bazar, Bombay’s Muslim quarter, when you are settling down for breakfast here. Last time I was there, was with Ustad Zakir Hussain, the tabla maestro. He is a big foodie. We had gone for the Nalli Nihari, which is an UP Mughlai breakfast dish not to be found in any of the Muslim restaurants serving Kheema-Pav, Baida-Ghotala, Paya-Kebab and Brun-Maska-Chai for breakfast in Mumbai. The Ustad and I are otherwise scrambled-eggs-and-toast-forbreakfast kind of men. This time we were being adventurous. I suggest you do the same, forget your cornflakes and cream, your bacon and eggs, and head to Noor Mohammadi for a Mughlai breakfast. The restaurant is at the junction of Bhendi Bazar, where Mohamedali Road meets the roads going to Dongri and C.P. Tank. You can’t miss it. It is a small restaurant, nothing fancy, crowded at lunch and dinner time, but a little easier at breakfast. The service is brisk, and everything is served in half plates, unless you specify you want a full plate.     I remember watching Zakir Hussai eat, kurta sleeves rolled up, tablachi fingers delicately wrapping a crisp piece of roti around gravied meat and popping it into his mouth. He was completely at home. But then he was home. The Ustad is a Mumbai boy with Kashmiri blood in him. Typically of Bhendi Bazar and its inexpensive eating houses, the menu at Noor Mohammadi is written on the wall, in Hindi and Urdu. The most expensive dish, the Shahi Plate of Nalli Nihari and Bheja — I remember again, is priced at Rs. 40. And the cheapest, the Shammi Kebab, at Rs. 5. This is that kind of joint. But the food, authentic Mughlai Uttar Pradesh cuisine, is almost to die for. Zakir Hussain, who wines and dines in all the Michelin-rated restaurants of the world, and who knows most international master chefs by first name, discussed our meal with Mohammed Khalid, the restaurateur. “Hmmn, now let’s see, we’ll have the Nalli Nihari certainly, this is a breakfast dish, nashte ka khanna, it should be good. I’d like to try the Dal-Ghee, that’s unusual! Kheema? If you say so. And what else? Paya! You’re kidding! Yes, yes, paya leke aao!”     Okay, now for the Nalli Nihari. It is a breakfast dish of the Muslims of Uttar Pradesh. They are hearty eaters. And nihari means to eat without having washed or even brushed your teeth! Go to Noor Mohammadi early, the Nalli Nihari finishes by 9 a.m., even earlier. The meat is the thigh muscle, cooked on slow coal fire for 12 hours, till it becomes so tender that you can pick it with your fingers. It is just meat, boneless, one nice chunk of it. And it comes with a spicy gravy called sheerwa, quite sharp with garam masala and pepper. In the gravy, somewhat thick, you will spot bits of nalli, which is bone marrow, eat it fast, before it melts. Order a fresh roti, a karari tandoori roti like Ustad Zakir Hussain and I did. Dip the roti in the gravy, break the meat with your fingers, and eat.     The bhattis for the Nalli Nihari are started twice a day, at 6 o’clock in the evening to get ready by 6 the next morning, and at 9 o’clock in the morning to get ready by 7 in the evening. They are cooked on dum, the marrow bones and the meat, in large vessels, sealed with an atta paste and a heavy weight put on the lid. When ready, the marrow is knocked out of the bone. There’s a whole lot of extras that go into the vessel: saunf and sonth, jaifal, elaichi, lavang, javitri, wheat flour, jeera, black pepper, tej patta, ghee, crushed garlic and finely chopped onions. As the vessel is opened at 6 a.m., so is the restaurant, and the first customers come in, after morning prayers at the mosques in the neighbourhood. Noor Mohammadi Hotel, 179, Wazir Building, Bhendi Bazar, Mumbai 4003. Tel: 2345 6008, 2347 6188.
Whoever said Breakfast is the most important meal of the day sure knew what he was talking about. And Mumbai has so much to offer — from the familiar steamed idlis to the spicy kheemapav to the fluffy dhokla. INDIRA RODERICKS samples five of the best regional breakfasts in Bombay...
Fruit for Thought Organised retail can address the mess in Indian horticulture     Arecent World Bank report on India’s fruits and vegetables trade comes up with some sour facts. India produces 11 per cent of the world’s vegetables and 15 per cent of fruits at 53-63 per cent of global prices, but its share in global fruits and vegetables trade is 1.7 per cent and 0.5 per cent, respectively. How does one explain this mismatch? That Australian apples are cheaper in Tamil Nadu than apples from Himachal Pradesh tells us a great deal — that India’s chain of intermediaries and high transport costs rob horticulture of its competitive advantage. Farmers end up with just 15-20 per cent of the final price, as against 30-40 per cent in the US. A rentierdominated set-up like this creates a perverse set of incentives and disincentives. A horticulture farmer can be ruined if he produces more in a particular year — tomato and chilli farmers frequently destroy their produce — when he should actually be rewarded. He could make more money if his crop is partially, but not substantially, damaged, as was the case with onion farmers in 1999. As farmers’ leader Sharad Joshi points out, people cry hoarse when prices of onions or tomatoes cross Rs 40 a kg, but do not spare a thought for producers when prices dip to Rs 5 a kg. Even as the government draws up insurance plans for crop failures, it should take note of the fact that producers are unjustly penalised for overproduction. Farmers and consumers would be insulated from wild fluctuations if, instead of intermediaries, organised retailers were to enter the picture in a big way.     With their improved infrastructure and large scale of operations, big retailers will reduce both time and costs in the supply chain, and cut down on wastage. They would reward farmers for a good crop by holding prices at a constant, intermediate level, which would reconcile interests of producers and consumers. In Andhra Pradesh, for instance, mango producers suffer when they produce a bumper crop, because they cannot store the fruit for later release or divert it for value-additives. Agriculture needs to be industrialised in order to optimise resources and incentivise efficiency. Why not turn centres of horticulture into special economic zones, with part of the processed area devoted to storage facilities, value-addition industries and township development? India can emerge as the world’s food basket and more.
HOT BUY IT’S TUNA TIME! - INDIRA RODERICKS     If you have always enjoyed eating fish (particularly tuna) out of a can, but could not digest what’s available in the market, then the new range from Heinz is for you. What’s already available in the market is flaked tuna in spring water, brine, vegetable oil, and olive oil. But Heinz has introduced a range of flavoured tuna tins that are absolutely out of this world. Priced at Rs. 110/Rs. 120 you could mix the flaked fish with pasta or in a salad or better still simply put some on toasted bread and have it for breakfast. A good option would be garlic toast, the readymade kind would do. It is a no-fuss meal, with breakfast being just one option. It also makes a great starter or an evening snack. The tins come with a plastic lid and a spreader. Which means that once the can is opened, you need not empty the contents into another container. Simply cover with the plastic lid and store in the refrigerator. It has a shelf life of around two years so it’s not something you need to finish once opened.     The best part are the flavours - Hot Chilli Tuna, Tuna Mayonnaise, Tuna with a Thousand Island Dressing, Black Pepper Tuna, Tuna in Tomato and Onion, Tuna in Brine, Tuna with Ginger and Soy, Tuna in Olive Oil, Flaked Sandwich Tuna, Salad Tuna, each unique in taste. It’s hard to say which flavour is the best, but our pick is the Tuna Mayonnaise (it beats mixing flaked tuna with mayo from a bottle), Hot Chili Tuna (which has a nice pungent bite to it) and Black Pepper Tuna (where the fish is mixed with cracked black pepper, not powdered pepper). These fish tins are available at all stores in the city but if you have trouble getting any call Girish at 98211 15189. He’s from the company that imports this product and he’ll be only too happy to help.
NOBODY DOES A STEAK LIKE MARTIN DOES! The New Martin Hotel in Colaba has been famous for its Steak Onion and Chips since 1963 - MARK MANUEL     You may keep your Kobe steaks and chateaubriands made of prime Angus beef, it is my personal belief that if prepared carefully, a good steak can also be made out of our tough and stringy Deonar meat. Restaurateur Baptist D'Souza of New Martin Hotel near the old and defunct Strand Cinema has being doing that for decades now. The Steak Onion and Chips here priced at Rs. 60 and made of beef bought from Crawford Market, is paisa vasool and to die for. It is served without any fuss, a good and healthy chunk of meat, full of its own juices, the sauces used in the marination, and oil. You cut a bite-size portion, swivel it around the plate to catch the sauce, fork in some fried onion, dip the meat into mustard, and pop it into your mouth. Yummy! The meat will be well done and neither rare nor medium, this is not Kobe or Yoko. It is my guarantee, you will go back for the Steak to New Martin Hotel.     It has been on the menu since Baptist's father returned from Saudi Arabia in 1963 and started New Martin Hotel with a basic knowledge of food. Interestingly, New Martin Hotel is famous for its Goan Pork Sorpatel, Pomfret Curry Rice and Prawn Vindaloo, but the restaurateur's family comes from Mangalore. No matter, it is the Steak Onion and Chips that is most popuar here. And the recipe that New Martin Hotel follows in preparing this signature dish is neither Goan nor Mangalorean. Neither is out of a recipe book. Baptist is willing to share the recipe, but ask him about the origin of his Steak Onion and Chips, and he looks doubtful.     New Martin Hotel does not use the classic beef undercut to make its Steak. Instead, a big chop is bought, it is deboned, cut into slices like a loaf of bread, the meat is hammered to flatten it out, then each slice is marinated and refrigerated. They do not half-boil the meat here before the marination but prefer to keep it raw. “Half the taste goes out of the meat if you boil it because the juices drain out,” complains Baptist. It is the masala that New Martin Hotel uses that does the trick. They grind their masalas by hand. The marinade is made of a milky raw papaya that acts as a tenderiser, it is mixed with ginger, garlic and little pepper. This is applied to the meat slices, a little Hotshot sauce and soyabean sauce is brushed onto the meat, and this is marinated for upto three hours in the fridge.     When a Steak order comes, the meat is deepfried in refined oil for upto 20 minutes, the onion is added towards     the end and it     soaks in     the rich sauces and meat juice and acquires a taste of its own. Some boiled veggies and chips (the thick home-made wedge variety, not McDonald's potato slivers) are added and it is served to the faithful and hungry who swear by New Martin Hotel everytime there is a discussion on Steak.     Mindful of the fact that a regular steak portion in a proper steakhouse or sizzler restaurant would be around 240 grams, Baptist keeps his Steak between 200 and 250 grams. He buys the meat chops from one particular butcher he has been going to for over 40 years. One kilo of beef gives four Steaks. New Martin Hotel does about 25 Steak Onions and Chips a day. It is available for lunch (between 11.15 a.m. and 3.15 p.m.) and dinner (from 6.30 to 10 p.m.) and is made to order. A lot of foreigners living in the budget hotels in the bylanes of Colaba are attracted to the tiny eatery of five tables purely because of the Steak. “They come and ask for spicy food. Now they are used to our tastes because they spend time in Goa and eat Indian food there,” says Baptist. New Martin Hotel, 21, Glamour House, near Strand Cinema, Colaba, Mumbai 400 005. Tel: 2202 9606.
TABLE FOR TWO Ever wondered where our celebs go to indulge their taste buds? SANAYA CHAVDA and ZEENIA BARIA follow eight couples from different genres to their favourite eateries across the city
Like weather, experts to forecast price rise Abantika Ghosh | TNN New Delhi: Here’s some good news for inflation-hit Delhi. The city will soon have an inflation forecast, much in the nature of the weather forecast.     Within the next two months, the Delhi government will employ a private consultant who will not only monitor prices of essential commodities but will also assess factors like weather, transportation, export-import and trends of past years to forecast any possible spurt in prices to enable the government to take appropriate measures.     The consultant will submit fortnightly reports to the food and civil supplies department. Delhi is the first state in the country to embark on such a plan to check inflation. The items whose prices will be monitored and analysis done to indicate future trends are rice, pulses, wheat, fresh vegetables, fresh fruits, potato, sugar, onion, poultry, eggs and fish.     Said Nutan Guha Biswas, secretarycum-commissioner, department of food supplies and consumer affairs: ‘‘We have a market intelligence cell (MIC) but right now its function is limited to submitting daily reports on prices. That is hardly enough. The idea is to go beyond the survey and to analyse factors that lead to price rise. If there is an impending increase, the government should know beforehand. For example the rise in price of pulses — had we known beforehand that exports had increased so much, we might have been able to do something about it.’’     The consultant will report to the revamped MIC, which will be a cell involving the departments of planning & food, civil supplies and the directorate of agriculture marketing board. MIC’s role too will change so that instead of simply collecting data on market prices, it would need to maintain a detailed database ,including prices in other states, the weather and precipitation in areas/states where these 14 items are grown and factors affecting their transportation to and within Delhi.     MIC will also keep a watch on the effect the advent of retail chains has on prices.     Asked when the MIC will be ready to take over its expanded role, Biswas said, ‘‘Give us some time. For the consultant, we are ideally looking at an economist who can collate all this data and reach a conclusion.’’ Predicting the Future Post MCD poll debacle which was blamed partially on inflation, the state govt is now planning to put together a system for predicting inflation. The marketing intelligence cell will employ a private consultant to:
NOT ONLY MACHHER JHOL-BHAAT A mushrooming number of Bengali eateries all over the city bring you a taste of Kolkata in Mumbai Rucha Biju Chitrodia | TNN     Like any other Bengali, Rekha Basak loves her fish. This Mira Road resident is so passionate about seafood that she travels all the way to the Chembur fish market for ilish (hilsa) and rui (rohu). Laughing affably, the 47-year-old book designer says: “In fact, last December, I got tiger prawns by flight from Puri in Orissa.’’     Basak is equally passionate about preparing a curry for the painstakingly procured seafood. She cooks it Bangal (East Bengal) style with kalo jeera (onion seeds), green chilli, turmeric, tomatoes and a little garlic. Understandably, Basak does not feel the need to sample Bengali food outside home: “I’d rather have Continental.’’     But what if some other city Bengali got a little homesick (pun intended)? Fortunately, such a person would not remain optionless. The city offers a range of imaginatively named Bong eateries like O! Calcutta, Flavours of Kolkata, Taste of Kolkata, Calcutta Club and the sentimental-sounding Kolkata Calling. The similarities, however, end here. Each one of these eatouts caters to a distinctly different clientele.     If you are feeling generous, you can visit high-end O! Calcutta branches at Tardeo or Andheri (at least Rs 1,000 for two). For a reasonably priced dinner, you can visit (a little differently named) Howrah and Zaffran near Crawford Market or Flavours of Kolkata in Navi Mumbai (about Rs 250 for two). If you want both quick service and a really cheap fare, you can land up at little eateries like the heavily recommended Calcutta Club in Andheri and a “competent’’ Kolkata Calling in Kandivli.     Such joints are mushrooming in suburbs to cater to the increasing number of Bengali “expats”. Some of them have even begun to find favour with non-Bengalis who are learning that not all Bong food is mustardy and fishy and it offers a surprising range for vegetarians as well.     Bongs normally go through their lunch with rice (and sometimes a maida puri, called luchi, or atta roti) teamed with various combos. A meal starts with a healthy shukto, which is bitter gourd cooked with other vegetables like raw papaya and drumstick, and tempered with ginger and radhuni (an aromatic herb). “It cleans your liver,’’ says Arundhuti Mitra, a 27-year-old writer for a wildlife magazine. You can accompany the meal with aampora, which tastes like a cross between mango panna and jaljeera and works as a digestive. Shukto is followed by something like a saag (any leafy vegetable) or mocha (tender banana) curry, tempered with mustard seeds and garam masala. Then comes moog daal with bayleaf and garam masala, or arhar (urad) daal with aniseed and ginger, or masoor daal with onion, tomatoes and garlic. Another interesting item is chochchori, a delightful mix of vegetables with a little mustard. It compliments a beautifully named puri called radhaballabhi, which is stuffed with aniseed, kalonji and urad daal. (By the way, a certain Bengali rice is called gobindabhog).     The soft and flavourful radhaballabhi also works well with (enter the non-vegetarian) a juicy kosha mangsho, lamb in browned onion and tomato gravy. Strangely, this tastes exactly like the mutton curry served in the other coastal CPM state, Kerala. A heavenly delicacy, the creamy bhaapa malai chingri (very lightly flavoured prawns slow-baked in the flesh of tender coconut) is also a lot like the Malayalee fish molli (fish in coconut milk). However, the sharply pungent mustard dip for the chingri-mochar chop (prawns-banana flower dumplings) is unlike anything Kerala. One bite and an initiate to Bong cuisine will fly. If the mustard is replete with poppy seeds, like it is in aloo poshto (a potato main-course item), the newbie may jaywalk for a couple of hours.     Bong food also incorporates influences of the Mughal era (Mughlai paratha, which uses eggs, and potato-egg chicken biryani) and the Raj (spice-free chicken dakbungalow served to British officers).     Now, over to fish. Says Manisha Roychowdhury of Calcutta Club: “The best thing about Bengali food is no two dishes are similar. Rui can be made in three gravies. The normal onion-tomato, or with curd or mustard. Bhetki can be made as paturi (wrapped in banana leaf) or it is steamed in mustard paste. Chitol, rarely found here, is rolled in the fist into a patty.”     Anjan Chatterjee of O! Calcutta talks on the variety of gravies, like the Mughal-influenced brown kalia gravy with cashewnuts and red chilli paste, machher jhol (lightbrown gravy tempered with jeera) and malai curry that goes with lobsters and prawns.     “No Bengali meal ends without rice and chutney,’’ says Chatterjee. Try the sweet and tangy date-andtomato, mango and pineapple cutneys. Top it with celebrated Bengali mithai like rosogolla, rasamalai and sandesh. And complete the experience with paan.     rucha.chitrodia@timesgroup.com 
RELIEF RESTS ON A NORMAL MONSOON Vegetable prices hit the roof Sandhya Nair I TNN Mumbai: Your tomatoes are coming from Bangalore and your capsicum from Gujarat. That explains the growing prices of vegetables, both in the wholesale and retail markets. The prices may stabilise only by mid-July, provided, of course, the monsoon does not play spoilsport.     The prices of most edible commodities have shown a steep rise this week. Even the prices of grains and pulses are stretching the average middle class family’s budget. Market watchers at the Agriculture Produce Markets Committee (APMC) say the rise in prices is due to extra costs being incurred on transporting the commodities. It will take at least 60 to 90 days to pick vegetables grown across the state’s major farm belts. Until then, stocks will have to be sourced from other states, where climatic conditions are currently more favourable.     Tomatoes, a staple in most dishes, are in short supply. The large, juicy, red tomatoes that one sees in the market on a normal day comes from Sangli, Satara and Pune. But since the produce in the state will take another 90 days to reach the market, it is currently being imported from Bangalore, said an APMC official. “Tomatoes are selling for Rs 10 and 12 per quarter-kilo, but poor quality of the vegetable is putting off buyers,’’ said Shivaji Shende, a vegetable vendor at the Borivli market.     Onion prices were also on the higher side on Tuesday. In the wholesale market, onions from Nashik and Lasalgaon were sold at Rs 90-110 for 10 kg, while those from Pune were priced at Rs 100-110 for 10 kg. “A proper crop of onions will start arriving only in the first week of July. So rates are bound to go up,’’ said the APMC officer.     Capsicums, which come from Nashik, are selling at Rs 32-35 a kilo in your neighbourhood market right now. “The crop in the state will come by July-end, the vegetable is currently coming to the city from Gujarat,’’ the official said.     One vegetable whose price has remained more or less stable is the potato.     Right now, potatoes coming from Jalandhar, Uttar Pradesh and Indore are priced at Rs 70 to Rs 90 in the wholesale market. Potatoes are available aplenty in the retail market too, for as low as Rs 8-10 a kilo.     Fruit prices are also going northwards. In the retail market, six to eight bananas are selling for Rs 15-18. Chickoo is probably the only fruit that is still being sold at Rs 10 for six. “It will take a minimum of 15 days for the prices of fruits to stabilise. But though the wholesale prices are controlled, there is no control on what retailers charge,’’ the official added.     sandhya.nair@timesgroup.com 
Ex-Delhi CM killed in car crash Sahib Singh Verma Dies On Delhi-Jaipur Highway, Becomes 3rd Politician To Perish On Rajasthan Roads Vishwa Mohan & TNN Jaipur/Delhi: Former Delhi chief minister and BJP leader Sahib Singh Verma was killed in a freak highway accident on Saturday on his way back to the capital from Jaipur. He was 64.     The bearded Jat leader, who became chief minister after Madan Lal Khurana stepped down following the Jain hawala scandal, was killed almost instantaneously when a truck careened across from the opposite carriageway and crashed into the speeding Tata Safari he was in.     The accident occurred at Shahjahanpur in Alwar district, about 160 km from Delhi on National Highway 8. Two other occupants, driver Davesh Kumar and his friend Naresh Agarwal, also died on the spot. Verma’s personal guard Jagir Singh has been admitted to a Jaipur hospital.     Verma, a librarian with Delhi’s Bhagat Singh College who rose through the RSS to being CM for more than a year from 1996 before the baton passed to Sushma Swaraj, had gone to Neem Ka Thana in Sikar district to address a party rally.     Verma, who also served as labour minister in the NDA government after winning the Outer Delhi LS seat, is survived by his wife, two sons and three daughters.     Witnesses said the truck which crashed into Verma’s car tried to avoid a cyclist and went out of control, leaping across the wide median to the opposite carriageway and hitting the SUV head on. The Safari was instantly converted into a mangled heap of steel.     BJP chief Rajnath Singh described Verma’s death as the loss of a man who had championed the cause of farmers, labourers and the unorganised sector.     Singh and Rajasthan Chief minister Vasundhara Raje along with some other senior BJP leaders from Haryana, Rajasthan and Delhi rushed to Shahjahanpur as news of the accident came in. Raje and Rajnath Singh took a helicopter to the spot from Jaipur and visited the site as well as the hospital in Shahjhanpur where the bodies were kept before being driven to Delhi. Is Rajasthan jinxed for politicians? First it was senior Congress leader Rajesh Pilot, then another prominent Congressman Abrar Ahmed. And now it is BJP’s Delhi stalwart Sahib Singh Verma. Rajasthan proved to be ‘jinxed’ for all of them, for they died in road accidents at different times in the last seven years.     It is, however, not as if other politicians have not met with an accident in some state or the other. They have, but survived after sustaining varying degrees of injuries.     The list includes big-wigs like external affairs minister Pranab Mukherjee, Congress leader Ajit Jogi and BJP president Rajnath Singh who seem to be equally vulnerable on highways and link roads as the common citizens.     These accidents are also a reminder of the gruelling schedules politicians are forced to follow in their quest for reaching out to people either during election campaigns or as part of their routine schedule to go out for public functions and organisational work.     Pilot was killed in a road accident at Bhandana in his parliamentary constituency of Dausa in June 2000 when his car collided head-on with a state transport bus. He was on his way to Jaipur after a day-long visit to his constituency to catch the evening flight to Delhi.     Nearly four years later, the then Rajasthan Congress chief Abrar Ahmed met with a similar fatal accident. He was on his way to Jhalawar for a mass contact programme when his car collided with a truck at Gopipura village near Deoli in Tonk district on May 4, 2004.     In 2005, Congress MP and actor Govinda’s wife and children were injured when they met with an accident while driving to Ajmer from Jaipur. Her daughter was seriously hurt and lost a tooth.     Every time such accidents, involving big-wigs, take place, the possibility of conspiracy theory and foul play also come into the picture during the investigations. Though no evidence of this has come in the previous cases, the police, for obvious reasons, look into the accidents from all possible angles to find the truth.     Pranab Mukherjee’s case is the latest one involving a politician in a road accident. Mukherjee was injured when his car was involved in a head-on collison with a truck near Nakashipara in West Bengal’s Nadia district in April this year.     Former Chhattisgarh CM Ajit Jogi too was seriously injured when his Qualis hit a tree in Raipur district’s Gariaband block in April, 2004. Similarly, BJP chief Rajnath Singh survived with injuries after a headon collision in Sabarkantha district in Gujarat in December 2002.
EXCEPTION HERE
wine & dine
Throw an affordable brunch! BT shows you how any budget-conscious cook can add a little luxury to that weekend brunch...     An affordable brunch may seem like a bit of a paradox, as brunching is associated with wealth and luxury. Brunch is a great reward for working hard Monday through Friday, and there are few pleasures better than being able to linger over a late morning meal on a lazy weekend. Part of the reason why brunch is so closely tied to elegance is that it usually centers on an expensive dish like a soufflé, smoked salmon, or eggs in a rich, creamy hollandaise sauce. However, with a little bit of creative thinking and a few smart techniques, you can enjoy an affordable brunch and put a touch of luxury into your weekend. These easy tips will help you make an affordable brunch part of your week. Try a deceptively cheap dish There are plenty of main course ideas that fit into the budget of an affordable brunch while looking, and tasting, much more indulgent. Here are some of the best ideas to try on your affordable brunch menu. Take a cue from the British, and serve the classic “beans on toast,” a smattering of baked beans on a thick slice of hearty wheat toast, topped with a runny poached egg and served with fried tomatoes. Instead of shelling out for pricey smoked salmon, try broiling or grilling fresh salmon steaks and serving them with a drizzle of cream sauce. To get some of the richness of a soufflé without the price, try making Mexican Chilaques, an exotic cheese-based casserole that makes a great and exotic centerpiece to an affordable brunch. Serve bread first For a great way to make a filling but affordable brunch, take a cue from restaurants and set out a bread basket in advance of the main course. Bread is inexpensive, so letting it provide a lot of the heft of your meal will help you plan an affordable brunch. Everyone feels their hungriest at the start of a meal, which means that if you serve bread at the start, people will quickly start to fill themselves up. People who are somewhat satisfied will be happy with smaller portions of the more costly dishes later on, and that adds up to an affordable brunch. If a plain baguette or rolls don’t fit with the tenor of your meal, try a muffin basket, slice up a coffee cake, or bring out a round of warm, toasted bagels. Add a side salad Part of the fun of brunch is having a plate that looks bounteous, and there is a great way to accomplish that without spending a lot of money. If you want to make an affordable brunch look dressed up, a simple green salad is your best friend. To turn a simple omelette into a deceptively affordable brunch treat, dish it up it on a bed of mixed greens dressed delicately in vinaigrette. Add a little bit of extra elegance to beans on toast by serving it alongside a generous pile of baby spinach salad complete with cherry tomatoes and chopped onion. In addition to making an affordable brunch feel more posh, a side salad with the main course helps everyone at the table get their allotment of vital nutrients so that they feel healthier and more vibrant for the rest of the day. Self-Service — the order of the day Offer some self-service counters. This is a great opportunity for friends to mingle and chat. You don’t need actual kitchen counters for this — use some extra tables set around the house. Play around with the furniture to make things more accessible and comfortable for your guests. Juice bar Ensure you have ample glasses for this and different sizes too. You can offer ready-made juices, but do make the effort for fresh juice, it’s well worth it. Smoothies Just combine some fresh fruits like strawberries, kiwi, melons or bananas, crushed ice, milk or yogurt in a blender and whiz! Orange Juice Don’t make this in advance. Arrange the oranges in an attractive bowl and keep an electric juicer ready for your guests to squeeze out some fresh juice. Ensure a chopping board and sharp knife are kept handy. Knick-knacks Good quality cocktail paper napkins are available at most grocery stores. Make sure you arrange a bundle at each counter. You can save the fabric napkins for the main buffet. Make cutlery bundles and place them in a basket at the buffet table — you can be casual and still be classy with your presentation.
KID ZONE
For A Bit Of Old Mumbai! Khotachiwadi, that lovely hamlet at Girgaum, tells the story of a forgotten era - INDIRA RODERICKS     Disagree if you may, but fashion des i g n e r Ja m e s Ferreira is Khotachiwadi’s unofficial ambassador. Apart from the fact that he resides in a beautiful, old restored house with his mother Thelma, he dons his role as the area’s watchdog with ease. If he sees anyone spitting or throwing garbage, down the stairs he will run and make sure that the mess is cleaned up by those responsible for it.     But this piece is not about James, it’s about Khotachiwadi, that lovely East-Indian hamlet (though most of the East Indians have moved out over the years), that is located between Gai Wadi and the trademark red St. Teresa’s Church in Girgaum. It’s an old village, where the houses are only twostoreyed high and painted in bright hues of red, green and blue. Although you would find a highrise in the midst of these cottages ruining the charm of the place. But we suppose, as time goes by that sort of change would be inevitable.     If you love old houses that have been built of Burma teak and the roofs have Mangalore tiles, where the windows are big and airy, with just iron bars as protection, where the curtains have a little frill on the top, where there is no air-conditioning where c o m fo r t abl e arm chairs grace the verandas, then Khotachiwadi is the place for you. The area has been declared a heritage precinct and the good thing about that would be that any development within the precinct would have to be in accordance with the g u i d e - lines framed by the Heritage Conservation Committee of the Municipal Corporation. But looking at how buildings are being constructed without any aesthetic sense or beauty, it seems more like a joke than a declaration. Clearly builders are being given permission to go about their business without taking any heritage aspect into consideration, much to the annoyance and disappointment of the residents. What really sets Khotachiwadi apart is the aspect that despite the houses almost touching eachother, the narrow pathways between the houses are clean and garbage free. The same goes for the narrow lanes as well, it’s difficult to get a four-wheeler through, and the residents are thankful for it. Walk down the roads and marvel at the houses, if you’re lucky some of the residents may even let you have a peep inside. Look, but don’t touch, they will warn you. Say a prayer at some of the old crosses, buy the freshest potato wafers from Ideal Wafers and enjoy a hearty meal at Anant Ashram (see box) and you can’t wait to return to Khotachiwadi! Must Visit, Must Eat at Khotachiwadi! Anant Ashram may not be the grandest eatery in the city, but the food served is clearly the freshest and best. Fish dominates the menu and this varies depending on the catch of the day. It could be clams, prawns, mackerel, pomfret, Bombay ducks, fish roe or salmon. You can either have it in a curry, semi-dry with lots of freshly grated coconut or fried. There’s the popular mutton and chicken sukha, a mould of piping hot white rice, dal, chappatis (baked on a open wood fire), sol kadi and the vegetable of the day. You won’t get too many accompaniments either, just sliced red onion, wedges of lime, a fiery green coconut chutney and thick grainy kitchen salt. The eatery, well over 90 years old is rather unique. The menu is written on a blackboard, each customer is seated individually on marble top square tables and once a particular dish is over, it is simply wiped off the blackboard. Open for lunch (11.30 am onwards) and dinner (7.30 pm onwards) the menu changes everyday. The prices are reasonable and the food absolutely fresh. Which, makes it a good enough reason to visit, we say...
wine & dine
Onion prices, next worry for UPA govt New Delhi: Onion prices, which cost the BJP its power in the Centre in 1998 and almost rocked the Sheila Dikshit government early this year, are once again soaring.     Prices of the edible bulb have risen 11% in the past one week in wholesale markets, with production dipping across the country.     “The cost of onion has reached Rs 20 a kg now (in retail market) which is too high to buy daily,’’ said Mamta, a homemaker and resident of the national capital. The all India average price of onion in the wholesale market went up to Rs 1,070 a quintal on August 18 against Rs 962 per quintal on August 13, according to Nashikbased National Horticultural Research and Development Foundation.     “The main reason for increase is less arrival of onion,’’ wholesale trader Sher Singh at the Azadpur Mandi said, adding there stocks in major mandis of Maharashtra were dwindling. The arrivals of onions at 36 major markets across the country declined to 100.14 lakh tons last Friday from 120.76 lakh tons recorded August 13. The onion arrivals in Delhi, one of the largest consuming centres of the country, dipped to about 600 tonnes on Saturday from 1,050 tonnes at the beginning of the last week mainly due to surge in onion rates in the southern parts of the country, where the supplies are also going from the producing areas, traders said. AGENCIES
Govt will meet to discuss hike in onion price Yogesh Naik I TNN Mumbai: The state government has called an urgent meeting on Thursday to discuss the issue of the rising prices of onions in the state and other parts of the country. The meeting has been called after Kanhaiyalal Gidwani, coordinator of the Maharashtra Pradesh Congress Committee’s consumer protection cell, wrote a letter to the CM apprising him of the problem.     Gidwani said, “The cost of onions should not exceed Rs 10 per kg. In the last 15 days, the prices have shot up by Rs 25 per kg and this is unacceptable.’’     Food and civil supplies secretary, K P Bakshi said, “The food and civil supplies department cannot do much to control the prices. But we have told the centre to keep a watch.’’     The wholesale prices of onion have fallen from Rs 1,800 per quintal to Rs 1,400 on Tuesday. Marketing minister Harshwardhan Patil told TOI, “I have called a meeting for discussing the problem. The central government was also inquiring about the issue and sought a clarification from us.’’     Housewives and hoteliers have hiked monthly budgets because of the price rise. Kumudini Salyankar, a housewife from Kandivli said, “Last month, the prices were Rs 10 per kg. I was shocked to see that the price has shot to Rs 24 on Tuesday. How will we survive with such a price rise?’’     yogesh.naik@timesgroup.com 
With eye on polls, Left opens new attack front Assails UPA Govt On Bread And Butter Issues TIMES NEWS NETWORK New Delhi: Even though sections of the government are still hopeful that a “moderatehardliner” faultline in the CPM might help stave off a showdown with the Left and rescue the US-India nuclear accord, the comrades opened a new front by assailing the UPA for price rise.     The move to shift the “esoteric” 123 nuclear agreement to more bread and butter issues does not augur well for the government as it reflects Left’s determination to gun for it over a range of issues. The harsh tenor of Left speakers in LS on Wednesday also reflected rapidly deteriorating ties.     The sharp interventions of CPI’s Gurudas Dasgupta and CPM’s Anil Basu who attacked the government for failing to hold the price line and for not taking sufficient measures to help farmers access credit seem pointers to things to come. Basu repeatedly asked finance minister P Chidambaram if he had any answers to a lack of pro-poor focus in his policies — queries that the minister ignored with studied calm.     Despite signs of mounting Left-Congress tensions, there was still some hope in government that there could be de-escalation of hostilities by the CPM. PM Manmohan Singh is understood to have been disappointed that Bengal CM Buddhadeb Bhattacharjee was unable to attend the meeting of the party’s central committee in Delhi due to his occupation with the visit of Japanese premier Shinzo Abe to Kolkata.     Sections of government has been hoping that the moderates — like the CM — would be able to persuade the CPM to take a softer line at least to the extent it does not become a “deal or support” choice. So far, such expectations have been belied, forcing some government sources to acknowledge that moving forward on the pact might just become increasingly difficult.     The turbulence has already robbed the Shinzo Abe visit of some of its gloss. This is despite expectations in the government of big benefits from the visit which follows Singh’s tour of Japan last December.     In the Lok Sabha, Dasgupta accused the government of failing to hold the price line and recalled its earlier promise to keep essential commodities within the reach of ordinary people.     Dasgupta said prices of staples like pulses, potatoes and onions were on the rise. He regretted that despite Chidambaram’s assurance of taking effective steps, nothing had been done. With the CPM CC in session to discuss the question of support withdrawal, the party MPs attacked the government questioning its commitment to the common man.
wine & dine
A HOT POTATO, AGAIN Govt may ban export of onions Pushes Back Decision As Commerce Ministry Demurs Sidhartha | TNN New Delhi: With onion prices hovering over Rs 20 a kg, the government may ban its export amid demands from tje commerce ministry to lift curbs on shipment of commodities like wheat, pulses and milk powder outside India.     Sources said the proposal was discussed by a committee of secretaries tracking price movement of essential commodities, particularly food products, but a decision had been deferred since the commerce ministry had opposed the move as there were expectations of a dip in prices in the coming weeks.     Earlier this week, the government had stepped in to raise the minimum export price (MEP) by nearly 30% to $445 a tonne in a bid to make exports less attractive. Onion prices — a traditional irritant for governments given its electoral significance — has been under watch since the start of the year and the MEP has seen five hikes so far this year. The MEP has been raised consistently from $165 a tonne a year ago.     With rains in Pakistan slowing down exports, India has emerged as a large export destination and government expects a significant rise in onion shipments which were estimated at around Rs 600 crore last year.     Sources said with political pressure and widespread public concern the rise, the CoS, which reviews prices on a monthly basis, was again considering a ban on exports. “Unless prices dip significantly, the government will have no choice but to ban exports as it is seen as the main driver for high prices,” said an official.     The commerce ministry is, however, still not convinced about the need to ban exports with officials saying that the main reason for the recent spike was disruption in supplies caused by monsoon rains across the country. Besides, they said, it was easy to ban exports but difficult to get back the market which was lost due to restricted supplies.     But with the government blamed by the political class and middle class of acting slow last year in its fight against price rise, it is unlikely to take any chances immediately, especially when high international oil prices are already threatening the new-found price comfort.
Rising exports blamed for onion price hike Mumbai: Though prices of onion have been rising in the last few weeks, state minister for marketing, Harshavardhan Patil feels that there is no need to panic. He blamed the price rise on the increase in exports.     Soon after the MPCC’s consumer cell coordinator Kanhaiyalal Gidwani took up the onion price rise issue with the government, Patil called for a meeting on Tuesday. “Onion exports have increased substantially. Besides, the exports from Pakistan to the Gulf have decreased because of excessive rains there. To match the demand, the exports from India have increased,’’ said Patil.     Prices of onion have shot up to Rs 25 per kg and this has caused worry amongst several Mumbaikars. He added that the prices of onion could reduce as fresh stocks have begun arriving in the market. The minister said that the government could not take action against hoarders as onions have been excluded from the Essential Commodities Act. TNN
wine & dine
MAHILA MORCHA SPEAKS OUT Wheat from Aus causing gastro among adivasis: BJP TIMES NEWS NETWORK Mumbai: The BJP has alleged that the wheat imported by the government from Australia is causing gastroenteritis among adivasis in the state.     Addressing a press meet, BJP Mahila Morcha chief Manisha Chaudhury said the wheat distributed in the PDS network is the only thing available to the adivasis, especially in the remote parts. “That’s all they get to eat. But it’s substandard wheat and is not even fit for animals,’’ she alleged.     The party has demanded that the wheat be withdrawn and the government come clean on the cases of gastro and other ailments now being reported from Dahanu, Mokhada and Jawhar talukas of Thane district and from Dhule and Nandurbar districts in north Maharashtra.     Chaudhury also said that while the procurement price of wheat in the state is Rs 8 to Rs 9 per kg, the Union agriculture minister, Sharad Pawar, who happens to be from Maharashtra, had thought it fit to import the sub-standard wheat from Australia at Rs 13.70 a kg. Chaudhury also said that essential food items like onions were expensive and the people needed some answers as to what the government was planning to do especially since the festive season was round the corner.     Shaina N C, another activist and city office-bearer of the party, called for a ban on the social networking site, ‘Orkut’, alleging that it was corrupting minds’ and allowing anti-India propaganda. It was also “virtually giving the licence to hawk vulgarity”, she added.     Citing the murder of Mumbai youngster Adnan Patravala by so-called friends he met on the site, Shaina said while films had a censor board and TV was monitored by the information and broadcasting ministry, the internet had no such regulator of content. She said the party was agreeable to selective censorship, but there had to be some curbs on the content on internet sites.
EXCEPTION HERE
EXCEPTION HERE
Atoms and Onions Instead of opposing N-deal, Left should help government tackle food prices     Prakash Karat’s new formula, that New Delhi should wait six months before operationalising the nuclear deal, is disingenuous. As anybody who reads these columns is aware, we disagree strongly with the view that the nuclear deal sells out India’s interests and therefore ought not to be signed. The Left holds a political view which it is entitled to hold. By proposing to put the deal in the freezer, however, it appears to want to kill the deal without quite taking responsibility for it.     It knows that election season will be on in the US in another six months. If the deal can be frozen till then it will pass from the Bush administration’s and US Congress’s priorities. It will also allow time for a subtle Chinese campaign against the deal to work its way through Capitol Hill. Since the deal was announced in July 2005, there’s been ample time to debate its pros and cons. Many nuclear scientists who had opposed the deal initially have been reassured by the final text of the agreement. Anil Kakodkar, chairman of the Atomic Energy Commission and one of the most influential among the early sceptics, is now at an IAEA conference in Vienna making the government’s case on nuclear energy cooperation. But Karat still thinks the country’s scientists and politicians need six more months to debate the deal. Clearly, an attempt to shelve it by consigning it to a committee.     Nevertheless there’s a window of opportunity here. The Left’s view is that the deal should not be operationalised for six more months. If that means the final signature can’t be placed on the deal for that period, that should be fine by the government. But Left politicians have been articulating the view that the government can’t even negotiate a safeguards agreement with the IAEA, a necessary step for the deal to go before US Congress. That’s a hardline position which, if it manages to scotch the deal, is going to cause incalculable harm to the country’s prestige.     There are issues more pressing for the ordinary voter which the Left should focus on and work with the UPA government to resolve. Domestic prices of food articles are climbing at 8.4 per cent, a much more rapid clip than the general inflation rate of 4 per cent. Crude oil prices have surged in the international market and domestic fuel prices too could go up. For the ordinary consumer it’s the price of onions, which has shot up 91 per cent over the past year, that matters more than an argument over atoms.
Onion wholesale price goes up Navi Mumbai: The wholesale price of onions has shot up, thanks to the unseasonal spell of shower that has destroyed the crop in parts of the state.     While the price of onion ranged from Rs 160 to Rs 170 per 10 kg over the past fortnight, the current cost is Rs 180 to Rs 190 for the same amount. Retail prices may even touch Rs 200 per 10 kg.     Ashok Valunj, the director of the onion-potato market at APMC, Vashi, said prices would remain high till the market gets the new crop. According to the secretary of the market, Rajendra Raskar, things have gone bad since heavy rains have destroyed the crop in talukas, like Khatau and Mangaon. TNN
Onion prices: Farmers hail Pawar’s stance Mumbai: Union agriculture minister Sharad Pawar’s statement that the government will not intervene on the issue of rising onion prices has been welcomed by farmers’ organisations.     “Pawar has shown that he knows the pulse of the masses, by refusing to step in, knowing well that he would lose the farmers’ sympathy by doing so,’’ said Anilkumar Landge, a farmers’ leader.     Farmers in Maharashtra should now hope that Pawar maintains the same stance on onion prices in future too, said Landge, who is also the president of Bhumata Krishi Manch.     The minister said that the government would not intervene in the rising onion prices issue.     “Let the farmers benefit. It is not right for the government to step in every time,’’ he said, attributing the fluctuating onion prices to the demand-supply situation in the state.     Onion prices have gone up due to heavy rainfall in the crop-producing areas. Wholesale prices at Lasalgaon in Nasik, which is India’s largest onion trading hub, witnessed a sudden spurt during the last week. AGENCIES
EXECUTIVE DIGEST French finances ‘critical’: French Prime Minister Francois Fillon warned on Monday that the country’s public finances were in a “critical” state and need drastic action to reduce worrying deficits of nearly € 41.5 billion ($58.5 billion). IOC earmarks capex of Rs 43,250cr: State-owned Indian Oil Corporation on Monday said it has earmarked a capex of Rs 43,250 crore over the next five-year period. Atlas to sell Merida bicycles in India: Atlas Products has tied-up with Taiwan-based Merida to sell their high-end bicycles in India and plans to open 25 exclusive stores across the country at an investment of Rs 20 crore. BNP Paribas acquires Rasbank fund depo biz: BNP Paribas said on Monday it had agreed to acquire the third-party depobank business for fund of hedge funds from RasBank, a wholly owned subsidiary of RAS Group SpA, part of the Allianz Group Group. Tricom acquires US fim for $2mn: Business process outsourcing firm, Tricom India has acquired the assets of USbased Apex Document Solutions for $2 million. GTL wins corporate excellence award: Network services player GTL has received the ‘Golden Peacock Global Award for Excellence in Corporate Governance -2007’ at the 8th International Conference on Corporate Governance held in London on September 20 and 21. Hinduja TMT name changed to Hinduja Ventures: Hinduja group company, Hinduja TMT, underwent a name-change on Monday and will be known as Hinduja Ventures. Oil prices drop: The price of New York crude tumbled on Monday but managed to remain above $80 per barrel amid tight energy supplies. New York's main futures contract, light sweet crude for delivery in November, tumbled 93 cents to $80.69 per barrel. Computers used in govt offices safer in India: Computers used in offices and sectors like aviation and healthcare in India are less prone to internet viruses than those in China, world's second largest broadband user after the US, a study by USbased internet security software maker Symantec Corp said. Daimler Chrysler doubles sales growth: Daimler Chrysler India said it has doubled its sales growth this year till August, selling 1,690 units of its four luxury cars in the Indian market.
A day in Paris... ‘Doing’ this chic city by the Seine in one day can be immensely satisfying. Let Raul Dias show you just how     While most Parisophiles would balk at the idea of spending one solitary day in this city where glamour greets romance in a snooty embrace, believe it or not, it is possible. The feasibility of having a blast in Paris when your itinerary can stingily squeeze in 24 hours here isn’t a pipe dream. Trust me! With a little planning and shrewd time management, you too can fall prey to the charms of this seductive City of Lights, while she takes you on a ride of your lifetime. The faster the better!     Start your day in typical Parisian style with a quick breakfast of the three Cs that make up a traditional French breakfast — coffee, croissants and confiture — at one of the many quaint little cafes found on almost every street corner. And while you’re at it, why not partake in some ‘live theatre’ in the form of the many street performers that put up impromptu comedy shows.     After you’re done with a bit of face stuffing, why not get your fill of a few of Paris’ awesome museums. I would recommend not leaving Paris without visiting the two “must’s” — the Musée du Louvre and Musée d’Orsay. Take the super fast metro train to the Palais-Royal-Musée du Louvre station which is slap bang in front of the Louvre. If you’re running out of time, Leonardo da Vinci’s enigmatic ‘Mona Lisa’ and Venus de Milo should feature on your list of ‘must sees’. The Musée d’Orsay that is opposite the Seine and a short walk from the Louvre, is much tinier than its more well-known rival. But it is as charming with its countless great works by masters of early modern art, including Matisse, Monet and Rodin. Remember, that on every first sunday of the month, entry to all of Paris’ museums is free, so plan ahead.     Next the symbol of Paris — the Eiffel Tower — beckons. Take the metro to the Trocadero station and see the Trocadero Gardens before your rendezvous with the Eiffel Tower. If time is on your side, sprint up to the top and all your huffing and puffing will be amply rewarded with a panoramic view of Paris. But even if you can’t go up the tower, you can still get a feel of Gustave Eiffel’s genius as you stare up at this iron wonder from below.     In my opinion, the next three Paris landmarks should be given at least two hours time to visit — all because they are within spitting distance of each other and thus three for the price (or time) as one! I’m gushing about the Place de la Concorde, Champs Elysees and the Arc de Triomphe.     Start at the Place that was designed by Ange-Jacques Gabriel in 1755. At the center of the Place is the Egyptian obelisk that once marked the entrance to the Luxor Temple in Egypt. The Galerie Nationale du Jeu de Paume and the Musée de l’Orangerie, both in the Tuileries Gardens, border the Place.     Cross the busy road opposite the Place and promenade down the most stylish street in the world — Champs Elysees — that is lined on both sides by designer boutiques and perfumeries. Eat a brisk lunch of smoked salmon and watercress sandwiches bought from the streetside kiosks, all washed down with a warming cup of hot chocolate.     The Arc de Triomphe will loom into your sight soon enough. It is possible to climb on the top of the Arc, although it is just as dramatic from street-level. The Arc de Triomphe that is at the centre of the Place Charles de Gaulle was built by Napoleon I following the model of the Arc of Constantine in Rome. There is a convenient metro station just at the foot of this monument from where you can take the train to the Notre-Dame, that stands serenely along the banks of the Seine. This is the perfect place to watch dusk fall over Paris as the lights that typify this city come on for the night.     As your magical day in Paris winds down to an end take a walk along the Seine, where vendors sell books and kitschy souvenirs. Eat a light supper of onion soup and buttered rolls at a bistro on the Seine’s left bank and treat yourself to an applecinnamon tart bought at a patisserie.     For a real taste of Paris’ nightlife saunter down to the red-light district of Pigalle, near Montmartre that is home to the legendary (and expensive) Moulin Rouge on Boulevard de Clichy. But for cheap thrills, there are plenty of inexpensive bars and clubs in Pigalle that will give you a glimpse of Paris’ raunchy side. Even a lifetime wouldn’t be enough to see all that this Grande Dame of a city has to offer, but there’s nothing like trying to fit in as much as you can in your one day in Paris. Enjoy!     raul.dias@timesgroup.com 
Onions again bring tears to Delhi eyes Price Rises To Rs 28/Kg As M’rashtra Rain Spoils Crop TIMES NEWS NETWORK New Delhi: Onions are once again making people shed tears with their price having gone up to Rs 25-28 a kg, almost three times the normal price. And there are indications that owing to crops being affected by heavy rain in Maharashtra and Karnataka, the price may rice even further in the coming days.     And onion is not the only vegetable that is causing despair. Even potatoes are available at twice the usual rate, at Rs 20-25 a kg. Wholesalers say the best quality onions are available for not less than Rs 20/kg with the lowest price being Rs 15/kg. Coming a close second, potatoes now cost Rs 18-20/kg. They warn that the prices of these vegetables in the retail market may even cross the Rs-30 mark if the new crops expected in October don’t reach the capital on time.     Neelam Mitra, a housewife from Kalkaji, complained: ‘‘Till last week, I was buying onions at Rs 22/kg which was bad enough. But on Friday, I was taken aback to find that the price had gone up to Rs 28/kg.’’ While the prices varied from area to area, people were complaining their household budgets had gone for a toss. ‘‘Who can afford to buy onions or potatoes at such steep prices! We have started skipping these vegetables in our meals,’’ Geeta Sahni of Mayur Vihar Phase II said.     According to Azadpur mandi sources, untimely and heavy rain in Maharashtra and Karnataka has hit the onion crop very badly. A wholesaler from the mandi said: ‘‘Much of the crop was ruined in the downpour in these states and the new crop from Maharasthra is not yet ready. It is expected to take at least 15-20 days more. Meanwhile, till we get crops from Rajasthan in the next fortnight, onion prices will remain high. As far as potatoes are concerned, the entire crop from Karnataka has failed and stocks are running out.’’     The price of potatoes is expected to come down sooner than onions as wholesalers said new crops from Punjab were coming in by mid-October while the Rajasthan crop for new onions is unlikely to come before October-end.     Delhi’s food and civil supplies minister Haroon Yusuf is watching the situation. ‘‘Prices going up during the rainy season in other states is an annual phenomenon. I have asked for a detailed report from the food and civil supplies commissioner on the retail prices of all vegetables. Right now, the situation is not so bad, but if the need arises, we will start selling these vegetables through fair price shops and vans. We have seen retailers taking advantage of such situations and hiking prices arbitrarily.’’ OUT OF BOUNDS Off diet | Forget mutton do-pyaaza, you might not be able to afford the onion. Prices have hit Rs 25-28 per kg. Also forget chips, potatoes are catching up at Rs 25 per kg Green blues | Heavy rain in Maharashtra, Karnataka means no onion harvest. The potato crop failed in Karnataka. If supplies don’t come in, vegetables all over might cross the Rs 30 per kg mark in October Slim chance | Onions expected from Rajasthan by Oct-end. Punjab to send in spuds by mid-Oct
SOARING RATES Onion price: Pawar’s stand irks Congress TIMES NEWS NETWORK Mumbai: The Congress has opposed Sharad Pawar’s suggestion that the government should not intervene to curb rising onion prices. Pawar recently held that there was no harm if a rise in onion price—which now costs Rs 25 per kg—helped farmers make some money.     In a sharp rejoinder, Kanhaiyalal Gidwani, chairman of the state Congress’s consumer cell, said, “The fact is that farmers are not benefiting, only hoarders are.’’     The Congress leader said that on August 23, the government held a meeting to review the situation. “It was pointed out that artificial shortage was being created by vested interests to jack up the price. Also, the $100 per tonne rise in export support price contributed to the cost push. Heavy rains damaged the crops, but there was also a stock of 2 lakh tonnes.’’     Gidwani on Saturday urged chief minister Vilasrao Deshmukh to order the purchase of 50,000 tonnes of the 2-lakh-tonne stock at Nashik and sell it at Rs 12 per kg through the retail network.     The cost of production for farmers, said Gidwani, was around Rs 2.5 per kg. The government should give a minimum support price of Rs 5 kg and ensure direct marketing so that middlemen are eliminated. “It will be a win-win situation for both consumers and farmers,’’ he held, adding that onions should be put back on the list of essential commodities.     Onion prices were running high at agriculture produce market committees in Nashik following reduced arrivals. The price at the major APMC in Lasalgaon was Rs 1,653 per quintal on September 26 and it touched Rs 1,811 the next day, and Rs 1,900 per quintal after that. It is hoped that fresh arrivals in October will push the prices down.
EXECUTIVE DIGEST Technopark signs agreement with Chinese IT firm: The country’s largest IT park, Technopark on Monday said it has signed a strategic co-operation agreement with China-based Shenyang Information Industry Bureau. Plethico looking for acquisitions in US: Drug maker Plethico Pharmaceuticals on Monday said it is looking to acquire retail pharmacy chains, pharmaceutical companies or standalone manufacturing units in the US in order to strengthen its operations globally. Financial Tech to raise $115m: Financial Technologies, technology solutions provider for capital, commodities, forex and debt markets, on Monday said it will raise up to $115 million through the issue of securities in international markets. Sebi restrains 2 brokers in BILT case: Market regulator Sebi on Monday restrained two stock brokers from dealing in securities and rapped 34 other entities in a case pertaining to price manipulation of the scrip of Ballarpur Industries (BILT). Biocon completes divestment of its enzyme biz to Novozymes: Biotechnology firm, Biocon on Monday said it has completed all activities related to the $115 million divestment of enzymes business to Novozymes South Asia. Kavveri Telecom acquires US firm: Telecom technology company Kavveri Telecom Products on Monday said it has acquired technology, intellectual property rights and patents of cellular infrastructure base station antenna line from US-based PCTEL Inc for an undisclosed amount. Abbott India Q3 net up 21% at Rs 20cr: Pharmaceutical company Abbott India has posted 21.56% increase in net profit at Rs 19.90 crore for the quarter ended August 31, compared to Rs 16.37 crore for the same quarter last year. Nafed raises onion export price by $50 a tonne: Nafed, the main government agency exporting onion, has hiked the export price of the commodity by $50 per tonne to discourage its overseas sale and augment domestic supply. Swiss bank UBS warns of big losses: Swiss banking giant UBS said on Monday that the crisis in the US subprime market had cost it around $3.4 billion.
Govt suspends onion exports for 15 days New Delhi: Concerned over the skyrocketing prices of onion, the government on Tuesday put a stop on the commodity’s export for the next 15 days to ensure adequate stocks are available in domestic markets.     “No new no-objection certificates (NOCs) for export will be issued till the shipments are due as per the NOCs issued earlier,’’ said Alok Ranjan, MD of National Agricultural Cooperative Marketing Federation (Nafed), the main canalising agency for onion exports. Effectively, he said no NOCs would be issued till October 15. The shipments due from earlier NOCs would expire in the next 5-7 days. The temporary ban comes a day after Nafed and 12 other agencies increased the minimum export price by $50 a tonne. AGENCIES
wine & dine
No ban on onion export: Govt Centre Clarifies After Nashik Farmers’ Strike, Trade Agency Says It Suggested ‘Go-Slow’ TIMES NEWS NETWORK New Delhi: It was a ban that was never imposed. With angry onion farmers going on two-day strike in Nashik in agriculture minister Sharad Pawar’s home state, the government on Thursday clarified that it had never imposed any ban on its export.     While the commerce ministry—the agency with the powers to ban the import or export of any product—made it clear that it was yet to issue any order, or even hear about it from the Cabinet Committee on Prices, the National Agricultural Cooperative Marketing Federation (Nafed), the canalising agency for onion trade, came out saying it had only “advised” a go-slow on new exports and suggested a ban on fresh no-objection certificates for 15 days.     Nafed is one of the several agencies involved in onion trade. Managing director Alok Ranjan was quoted in media reports indicating a ban on onion trade. This had immediately led to a slump in prices in Nashik, one of the biggest onion-producing districts of the country.     Commerce ministry officials went to the extent of saying that it was Nafed’s unilateral decision as there was no communication from the Cabinet Committee on Prices, which had decided on all previous export bans when prices had increased. “The present policy provision is clear that export of onions will be canalised to state agencies and Nafed has to prescribe quality standards. Onions are not on the restricted list but once Nafed, as the canalising agency, makes a statement saying that onions will not be exported for 15 days it is impossible for any shipments to take place,” a commerce ministry official said.     But sources in the Centre said the ambiguous signal, which led to prices settling lower in the market, was intended for just this purpose and with the knowledge of several key officials besides Nafed. But reacting to the farmers boycotting trade of onions at the Agriculture Produce Market Committee of Nashik, the government seems to have retracted its steps quickly.     Alok Ranjan explained: “All we had done as a key agency was send out an advisory to all other agencies and our people that new NOCs should not be issued till the earlier ones are cleared. This was done to slow down the export and help reduce prices.”     While the pre-festive season does usually lead to a spike in prices, this season, rumours of heavy damage along with rains choking transport, have helped prices rise a tad though officials still believe speculation has had as much a hand in it.
Vegetable prices soar, vendors hit panic button TIMES NEWS NETWORK Mumbai: The sensex isn’t all that is rising. With vegetable prices skyrocketing, Prathana Samaj-based vendor Vasant Patil is doing something he hasn’t done in a long whilebuying vegetables on a loan from wholesale traders. He has no other option as the prices have doubled.     “Earlier, I used to pay Rs 400 for 10 kg of peas. Now I pay Rs 700 for the same,’’ he says. He also pays Rs 80 more for 10 kg of doodhi (gourd).     His customers, like Minakshi Desai, a Prathana Samaj resident, have to cough up more for their vegetables as well. “While I used to buy green peas for Rs 40 per kg, I now have to shell out double the amount,’’ she says, adding that the price of doodhi has now gone up by 50%. And while she used to pay Rs 20 for a kilo of carrots, it’s now costing her Rs 36.     Worli housewife Sulbha Kalzunkar is also forced to pay double the price for almost every vegetable. “French beans, ladies fingers and brinjal used to cost Rs 10 per kilo, but now they cost Rs 20,’’ she says.     While onions have done a complete disappearing act from restaurants, a bunch of coriander leaves, often thrown in with the vegetables for free, for as little as Rs 2 per bunch, now cost an exorbitant Rs 20, equivalent to the price of a kilogram of onions. The same is the case with all leafy vegetables.     While the price hike pinches the pockets of the common man, the acute scarcity also has hoteliers cutting down on greens on the menu. This season normally sees a slump every year but things have got really out of hand this time, feels Chandrahas Shetty the president of Ahar-Indian Hotel and Restaurant Association.     “Hoteliers are willing to pay any price but there is a complete non-availability of onions. It has become acute in the last couple of days due to the strike in the Nashik market,’’ he said. The city receives a majority of its onion supply from Nashik, one of the biggest producers of onions.     “There has been a 25% to 30% rise in the price of all vegetables on an average. While one vegetable can be substituted with another, Chinese restaurants are finding it more difficult as they cannot make do without tomatoes, french beans, cauliflowers and carrots, all of which are scarce in the market,’’ said Shetty.     According to Ashok Gawde, director of Agricultural Produce Marketing Corporation, the usual rain pattern this year has made matters worse in an already slump season. “Instead of the rains coming when the crops were sown, it coincided with the harvest time. Also due to the damaging October heat, the vegetables come to the markets even before they are fully ripe hampering the quality,’’ said Gawde. He added that things will change for the better around Diwali time when fresh harvest from Gujarat, Delhi, Jaipur, Gwalior Karnataka and Madhya Pradesh will flood the city’s markets.     Prakash Reddy, secretary of CPI (Mumbai) blamed the government’s non-intervention in food prices for the main cause of concern.     toireporter@timesgroup.com 
Onion prices come down in Maharashtra Nashik: Onion prices dipped to Rs 1,400 per quintal from the Rs 2,000 earlier at the auctions held at the Lasalgaon, Pimpalgaon, Baswant and other agriculture produce market committees (APMCs) here on Monday.     After a four-day rest at the APMCs here, onion auctions began on Monday morning from Rs 1,955 per quintal, sources said, adding there were few arrivals of onions on Monday. As per state marketing minister Harshvardhan Patil’s decision to distribute onions in Mumbai through coop organisations, three truckloads of onions were loaded from Pimpalgaon, Baswant APMC to Matunga and Vile Parle in Mumbai on Sunday, sources added. After October 15, new lot of ‘pol’ onions will arrive in the markets, which will stabilise the price rise, market sources said.     Earlier, the prices at the APMCs had touched nearly Rs 2,000 per quintal. AGENCIES
Prepare Diwali package, Shiv Sainiks tell Patil TIMES NEWS NETWORK Mumbai: The anti-price rise morcha by Shiv Sena’s ‘mahila aghadi’ (women’s wing) was the party’s show of strength in Mumbai in the face of mid-term elections. “We did it the Sena style,’’ remarked a Sena leader, referring to the mahila workers’ altercation with the police at Mantralaya, the morcha’s destination.     A Sena delegation, led by leader of the opposition Ramdas Kadam, met deputy chief minister R R Patil and urged the Congress-led DF government to prepare a ‘Diwali’ package for citizens by bringing essential commodities such as rava, ghee and maida under the public distribution system.     The delegation demanded that prices of essential commodities and onions should be immediately reduced in view of the on-going festival season.     The Sena leaders also asked for the withdrawal poor quality wheat from ration shops. They furnished samples of the wheat to Patil.     Patil asked food and civil supplies principal secretary K P Bakshi to examine if any package had been announced last year and as to what was the burden entailed on the state exchequer.     He instructed Bakshi to prepare a proposal on whether rava and ghee could be sold from ration shops during the festive season. The deputy CM told the Sena delegation that the issue would be brought before the Cabinet at its next meeting.     Bakshi told TOI that no proposal had been prepared as yet and there would be further talks to decide the plan of action. Sources in the department said that the state could not take the decision to include extra items in ration shops and would have to ask the Centre for permission which, sources pointed out, is a lengthy process.     The Sena delegation came in full strength. It included Mohan Rawle-MP, Madhukar Sarpotdar, Divakar Raote, Arvind Nerkar, Anil Parab, Eknath Shinde, Neelam Gorhe and Meena Kambli.     Earlier, around 3,000 ‘mahila aghadi’ activists of the Sena from Mumbai and Thane gathered at Azad Maidan to protest against rise in the prices of vegetable and other household items.     They then went to Mantralaya in a morcha which was stopped at the gate by the police. “There was a mild lathi charge and some women were arrested,’’ said Mrinalini Kothari of the Stree Adhar Kendra. “Some were taken to Marine Drive police station, while others were at the Azad Maidan police station,’’ she added. They were soon let out.     toireporter@timesgroup.com 
Chop and change menu to keep bills in check TIMES NEWS NETWORK Mumbai: The monthly shopping for grocery has become a major juggling activity for Mulund resident Seema Shirgaonkar.     It requires “a lot of talent” and constant monitoring of the fluctuating market rates to keep the bills in check, the Mulund home-maker feels. So her gavaar sabzi now finds companionship in potatoes instead of onions.     “What do I do? Onions are so expensive that I have stopped buying them now. Many vegetables are also expensive but one good thing is that potatoes are cheaper. So I mix aloo with almost everything to get the necessary volume,’’ the 33-year-old, who manages the house and the kitchen, says.     Shirgaonkar is not alone. Onion has touched Rs 30 a kilogram now in some parts of the city and, even where it can be bought at Rs 22, middle and lower-middle class people are feeling the pinch.     So housewives are walking the tightrope even in more upscale neighbourhoods like Ghatkopar. Neeti Palladia, wife of a stock-broker, says it is time to wipe the dust off sprouts jars and place them at the edge of the shelf when vegetables become expensive. “Bhindi is very expensive at Rs 25 a kilogram. Cauliflower touched Rs 37 a kilogram a month ago. But the good thing is that there are some items that are cheaper and I have started making curry using beans and dried peas,’’ Palladia said on Saturday.     Mulund’s Shirgaonkar, originally from Ratnagiri, also switched to usal and misal when her favourite vegetable, French beans, cost Rs 20 a paav (250 grams). Her acts resemble what most Mumbaikars have been doing.     But the price has been corrected to a more realistic Rs 12 a paav now.     Dorris Alveira, a Borivli housewife, bought a kilogram of brinjal for Rs 30 on Saturday. But prices fluctuate between areas.     Lady’s finger costs Rs 20 a kilogram in Vaishali Nagar but, in Borivli, Alveira buys it for Rs 40.     Alveira, too, is doing the balancing act. “Since wheat is cheaper than rice, I make more chapati now though we are rice-eaters,’’ she says.     toireporter@timesgroup.com 
EXCEPTION HERE
PRICES IN A FLUX Some Food Items Have Become Dearer; But Quite A Few Essentials Are Cheaper Than What They Were A Year Back Archana Sharma | TNN Mumbai: Traders at Vashi’s Agriculture Produce Market Committee (APMC) have a quiet chuckle when they hear of politicians crying themselves hoarse about rising prices. Some fruits have been dearer because of Ramzan and a few vegetables (like onions) may be bringing tears to home-makers’ eyes but business — generally speaking — is “naram’’, foodgrain trader Sharad Maru says.     Maru and his fellow traders at APMC have the figures to back up his claim. Some of the essentials, largely foodgrains, are dearer but for every tur dal which is more expensive you have wheat which is cheaper.     A quintal of wheat used to cost Rs 2,950 at the APMC Market last year. The same quantity of the same wheat now costs Rs 2,096.     The cost of plain rice ranged from Rs 1,015 to Rs 2,500 last year. It has increased, but only very slightly, to cost between Rs 1,145 and Rs 2,500. Basmati rice, too, is only a little more expensive.     A quintal used to cost Rs 3,800 in October 2006. Now it costs anything between Rs 4,000 and Rs 5,000.     An APMC official said even these minor rises were because of “other’’ factors. “The price of Basmati rice, for instance, has gone up because companies entering the commodity market are hoarding it to create an artificial demand. They don’t mind the immediate loss but it’s part of their long-term plans,’’ he added.     Chana dal is another everyday kitchen ingredient that has become a lot cheaper thanks to a bumper crop this year. The price range for this used to be Rs 3,940-Rs 4,500 per quintal in October 2006.     The range is much lower, the rates varying between Rs 2,900 and Rs 3,613 for every quintal of chana dal this year. Mumbai’s favourite pulse, tur dal (which goes into making the lip-smacking dal tadkas) has become expensive, the price rising from last year’s Rs 2,965-Rs 3,500 for a quintal to Rs 3,781-Rs 4,413 this October.     But, then again, making idli is cheaper. Udad dal, an important ingredient in the South Indian dish, has become cheaper by about Rs 1,400 per quintal. So home-makers have options if they want to keep the grocery bills in check.     APMC Market joint secretary D D Kamble says the fact that prices have not shot up and that the crop has been good are evident from the number of vehicles coming into the market.     Three hundred and sixty trucks and tempos entered the vegetable market on 7 October 2006. The same date this year had 469 vehicles entering the market. But there are problems, admit officials. The rains of a fortnight back severely affected the onion crop. It is a fact that the crop rots when there is waterlogging and the price has increased manifold.     The price of onions on October 9 last ranged from Rs 300 to Rs 500 per quintal.     The same day this year saw the price shooting up to the Rs 1,100-Rs 1600 bracket. “The local crop failed and onions had to be brought from neighbouring Karnataka. Now they are coming from other states like Rajasthan and Andhra Pradesh and so the price is likely to come down,’’ Kamble said. Potatoes, however, are slightly cheaper than last year. Coriander has become quite expensive compared to the price three months ago. But, compared to last October’s prices when the wholesale rates were between Rs 1000 and Rs 2500, it’s much cheaper. Fruits should have been easily available but prices have gone up because of the high demand Ramzan, say officials at the APMC Market, adding that they may come down after Id. archana.sharma@timesgroup.com 
EXCEPTION HERE
Healthy Eating... Asparagus-The Royal Vegetable! If the Gods eat, they will eat asparagus - INDIRA RODERICKS     Asparagus is definitely a luxury vegetable. Its price, even in season sets it apart from the cabbages and cauliflowers. The spears, especially the thick, green spears, have an intense, rich flavour that is impossible to describe but easy to remember. There are many varieties of asparagus, the white and purple variety apart from the usual green that is sold in local markets. Arguments continue over which has the better flavour. But that, we say is best left to the eater. WHY ASPARAGUS IS GOOD... Asparagus is one of the most nutritionally well-balanced vegetables in existence. Its wealth of nutrients, fibre and very low sodium and calorie content make asparagus a nutritionally wise choice for today's health-conscious consumer. Asparagus is low in calories, only 20 per 5.3 oz. serving, less than 4 calories per spear, contains no fat or cholesterol, is very low in sodium, a good source of potassium, fibre, folacin, thiamin and vitamin B6. Asparagus has no fat, contains no cholesterol and is low in sodium. HOW TO BUY ASPARAGUS... While buying asparagus, the tips should be tightly furled and the stalks fresh and straight. Asparagus will keep for several days if necessary. Untie the bundles and store in the refrigerator. HOW TO COOK ASPARAGUS... The problem while cooking asparagus is that the stalks take longer to cook than the tender tips, which need to be only briefly steamed. To cook, place the bundle upright in a deep saucepan of boiling salted water. Cover and cook for 5-10 minutes or until tender. The cooking time depends largely on the thickness of the spears but take care not to overcook, the spears should still have a bite to them. If steaming asparagus, serve simply with melted butter, which perfectly complements the luxury of the vegetable. DID YOU KNOW? ASPARAGUS IS A MEMBER OF THE LILY FAMILY. • Asparagus spears grow from a crown that is planted about a foot deep in sandy soils. • Under ideal conditions, an asparagus spear can grow 10" in a 24-hour period. • Each crown will send spears up for about 6-7 weeks during early summer. • The outdoor temperature determines how much time will be between each picking...early in the season, there may be 4-5 days between pickings and as the days and nights get warmer, a particular field may have to be picked every 24 hours. • An asparagus planting is usually not harvested for the first 3 years after the crowns are planted allowing the crown to develop a strong fibrous root system. ROASTED ASPARAGUS AND MUSHROOMS Ingredients 500 gms asparagus, stalk ends trimmed 1 packet sliced mushrooms or whole if small 3 tbs extra-virgin olive oil 1 clove garlic, minced Salt and pepper Method Heat oven to 425°. Toss the asparagus and mushrooms with the olive oil and garlic until well coated. Spread the out in a large baking dish. Sprinkle liberally with salt and pepper. ASPARAGUS WITH BACON CHEESE SAUCE Ingredients 500 gms fresh asparagus, cooked and drained 2 tbs butter 2 tbs flour 1 cup milk 1/4 tsp salt 1 cup shredded cheese 4 to 6 slices crisp cooked bacon Method Melt butter in saucepan; stir in flour until smooth and bubbly. Gradually add milk. Cook, stirring constantly, until thickened. Add salt and cheese; stir until cheese is melted. Pour sauce over hot drained asparagus then sprinkle with crumbled bacon. ASPARAGUS SALAD Ingredients 500 gms fresh asparagus, cooked and drained 1/2 tsp salt 1 1/2 tsp prepared mustard 2 tbs olive oil 2 tbs vinegar 2 1/2 tbs finely chopped onion Lettuce 1 to 2 tbs chopped roasted red bell pepper Method     Place asparagus in a shallow dish. In bowl, combine salt, mustard, oil, vinegar, and minced onion. Pour over asparagus. Cover and chill for 1 to 2 hours. Drain off marinade and serve asparagus on lettuce-lined plates with a sprinkling of roasted red pepper. The spears, especially the thick, green spears, have an intense, rich flavour that is impossible to describe but easy to remember.
SEXCITING FOODS! Aphrodisiac foods, besides tantalising your taste buds arouse the senses, finds out BT     Some scientists believe that aphrodisiacs play on the mind, as the most powerful organ known to man, is the brain. This is commonly known as ‘the placebo effect’. If we believe that something has put us in the right frame of mind, then we often find ourselves doing it. Legend has it that certain foods have aphrodisiacal qualities. In today’s age, diets are far healthier and nutritional. It is very difficult to pinpoint particular effects of selected foods… So let’s go with the legends and see what they were known for! Here are some foods that reportedly have that ‘Special Power’ to not only set your taste buds tingling but increase your sexual appetite too — possibly due to their shape, sweet scent or their alluring aroma? FIGS What it does to your senses: The ancient Greeks perceived a man eating a fig in front of his partner as an erotic act. ... and health: Figs are low in fat and sodium but high in fibre. COFFEE What it does to your senses: Caffeine is a well-known stimulant and keeps us on the go, but remember, too much plays a reverse effect and leads to depression. ... and health: Nutrigenomics: The Science of Genes, Nutrition & Health, USA has proven data that the consumption of coffee assists in reducing type 2 diabetes, liver cancer, Parkinson’s and Alzheimer’s disease, gall and kidney stones. VANILLA What it does to your senses: The alluring aroma of fresh vanilla beans is said to increase the libido. ... and health: Vanilla in old medical history was used to reduce fever, but in today’s society, is purely used as a flavouring and or as scent. WINE What it does to your senses: Like caffeine, too much wine will work in reverse. A glass or two of relaxes and stimulates the senses. ... and health: Studies are continuing to prove that moderate consumption of red wine assists in reducing cancer and heart disease. OYSTERS What it does to your senses: The all time favourite! These shell encrusted jewels of the sea were believed by the ancient Romans as being an aphrodisiac as far back as the second century AD. ... and health: Scientists have determined that some crustaceans, like oysters, clams and mussels, are high in zinc, associated with improving potency, but also contain levels of D-aspartic acid and NMDA compounds that may be effective in releasing hormones such as estrogen and testosterone. Oysters are low in cholesterol, high in protein and lipids and an excellent source of vitamins A, B1, B2, B3, C and D. BROCCOLI What it does to your senses: Legend has it that it increases virility… in all likelihood a perception created to entice people to eat more green vegetables. ... and health: Broccoli is low in fat and cholesterol, an excellent source of sodium and vitamin C. RASPBERRY What it does to your senses: High in vitamin C and like a bunch of grapes, a perfect fruit to feed your partner. ... and health: All berries are low in fat, sodium and cholesterol, an excellent source of vitamin C. ANISEED What it does to your senses: The ancient Romans and Greeks believed that these seeds had the power to increase desire. ... and health: Aniseed was used in folk medicine to increase milk secretion and facilitate birth. ASPARAGUS What it does to your senses: Frequently assumed to be an aphrodisiac because of its appearance, possibly another creative idea to get people to eat healthy. ... and health: Asparagus is low in fat and sodium, a good source of vitamins A and C. AVOCADO What it does to your senses: Known for its appearance and texture. ... and health: Avocados are very high in fat but a good source of vitamin C CARROT What it does to your senses: In ancient times, the Middle Eastern royalty believed eating carrots aided seduction. ... and health: Carrots are low in fat and cholesterol, a good source of sodium and vitamin C. TRUFFLES What it does to your senses: It’s considered by the ancient Greeks and Romans to stimulate due to its alluring musty scent. ... and health: This highly priced jewel of the kitchen has no medicinal effects, but what a prize for the chef. CORIANDER What it does to your senses: Coriander was known to be an appetite stimulant. A bit of trivia dates back to over 1000 years. The ‘Arabian Nights’ has a tale of a merchant who was supposedly fed on an elixir of coriander seeds and was cured of infidelity. ... and health: Medically, coriander is mostly used to settle upset stomachs and is commercially used as an ingredient to make medicines more palatable. Compiled by Executive Chef, Matthew Cropp, of The Oberoi, Mumbai.
wine & dine Pizzas@ Papa John’s While the kids are basking in the festive mood, parents can double their joy with Papa John’s special Happy face pizzas that come with a kids drink and treat having varieties of veg and non-veg toppings. Papa John focuses on making superior quality pizzas along with a variety of other items such as Cheese sticks, Chicken strips, Soups, Salads and Pastas. To double the celebration, kids can get discount coupons on the DVD of Spiderman 3. Tel: 2881 6363.
‘AU NATURAL’! Here are five easy ways to go organic in your food habits     Switching to organic is tough for many families who don’t want to pay higher prices or give up their favourite foods. But by choosing organic versions of just a few foods that you eat often, you can increase the percentage of organic food in your diet without big changes to your shopping cart or your spending.     The key is to be strategic in your organic purchases. Opting for organic produce, for instance, doesn’t necessarily have a big impact, depending on what you eat. According to the US Environmental Working Group, commercially-farmed fruits and vegetables vary in their levels of pesticide residue. Some vegetables, like broccoli, asparagus and onions, as well as foods with peels, such as avocados, bananas and oranges, have relatively low levels compared to other fruits and vegetables.     So how do you make your organic choices count? Pediatrician Dr Alan Greene, whose new book “Raising Baby Green” explains how to raise a child in an environmentally-friendly way, has identified a few “strategic” organic foods that he says can make the biggest impact on the family diet.
wine & dine
METRO DIGEST Lawyers observe one-day strike Lawyers from across the state converged at Azad Maidan in the city for a day’s token strike on Thursday. Their protest was for a cause in their own interest. The Bar Councils of Maharashtra and Goa which has over a 1.2 lakh lawyers on its rolls has a set of six demands, including a monthly stipend scheme for young lawyers which it wants the state to meet. Lift minimum export price on onions, state to tell Centre: Facing a possible glut in the market thanks to a bumper onion crop this year, the state government will ask the centre to lift the Minimum Export Price on onions, to allow farmers to send greater exports. Cops find rare birds, animals in Khar shop: The Khar police were on Wednesday tipped-off about rare species of birds and animals being sold at a shop close to the railway quarters. Police officials visited the place and on conducting checks, found rare birds and animals kept in cages. The statement of the shopowner, Mohammad Shafi Shaikh (25), has been recorded. Thane jewellery shop burgled: A jewellery shop in Thane (E) was burgled on Wednesday night. The culprits decamped with valuables worth Rs 8.50 lakh from Archana Jewellers situated behind Anand Theatre. According to the Kopri police, the incident took place after 9 pm when the shop closed down for the day. The burglars entered the shop by breaking the shutter. Aircraft parts stolen: A private engineering company looking after the maintenance of small aircraft at the old Kalina airport lodged a complaint of theft of airplane parts from the hangar on Thursday. The complaint was filed by one Sudhakar Surve, an engineer with Air Wharf Engineering Private Limited. He alleged that two sets of long rings, two sets of outboard plates and one hub collectively worth Rs 6 lakh has been missing from their store room.
wine & dine
Celebrate in style     On the New Year’s eve, there’s a whole lot of surprise planned at the ITC Hotel, The Maratha. At the Peshwa Pavilion, on offer are Indian and international delights in a sumptuous buffet make for a perfect start to the New Year. Priced at Rs 4,500 per person inclusive of taxes with select unlimited beverages. The menu highlights include chicken liver crostini, prawns flamed with cognac, medallions of lamb with black eyed beans, Tiramisu Fresh strawberries on toasted panettone with mascarpone etc. At the Pan Asian, on offer are Oriental overtures with cuisine from Thailand, China, Mongolia, Korea and Japan. A la carte menu include crispy fried pomfret, barbecue chicken salad, sliced onion and capsicum from Dalian. At Peshawari, on offer is a cuisine fired by the passion of the North-West frontier. A la carte menu includes Turkey malai, tangadi kebab, duck Peshawri etc. At Dum Pukht, on offer is daawat-e-khas with a feast fit for the kings in a five course royal dining experience. Priced at Rs 4,500, menu suggestions include jhinga dum nisha, Kacchi biryani etc.     At Dakshin, try a mélange of the best from the Southern states of India in a celebratory menu with live instrumental Indian classical music. Priced at Rs 3,500. Menu includes Dakshin Yera, flaky Vechu parotta, Degeree Kapi etc. At Bombay High Bar, enjoy a wide selection of single malts, wines, a la carte. Live performance by Saxualiti, the Australian duo.     On January 1, at the Peshwa Pavilion, on offer is a grand New Year brunch. The expansive atrium summons as Peshwa Pavilion is bourgeoning with delicacies from the world over. A glance away, chefs animatedly interact over their Rolls Royce akin cook stations, grilling Himalayan trout or poaching in beer large lobsters. Try the house specialty of frozen ices plump with French berries, sozzled with flavoured vodkas. Rock oyster shots with kiwi chili lime salsa, flamed with tequila ar Rs 1,750. At the Pan Asian, try the grand New Year Oriental brunch at Rs 1750.     For reservations, call 28317993 and 28317752.
METRO DIGEST Student commits suicide: A 15-year-old student, Rohan, committed suicide by jumping on the railway tracks reportedly since he could no longer bear torture by a teacher at Raja Shivaji School in Dadar Hindu Colony. New name for road: The function to name the junction between Justice Devishankar Vyas and Thomas Road after former Test cricketer Dilip Sardesai has been advanced by an hour. It will now be held at 9 am on Sunday, January 6. Rs 15 cr for onion storage unit: The Centre has granted Rs 15 crore to build storage facilities in the state to cope with the glut of onions in the market this year. The move is expected to prevent prices from plummeting and protect onion farmers. MNS protest at Hyatt: The MNS on Thursday staged demonstrations at Hotel Hyatt in Santa Cruz where a duty free shopping giant was conducting interviews for recruitment for duty free shops at Mumbai airport. A leader said, “This company had issued an advertisement in an English newspaper. How will the Marathis know about the vacancies?” JITO’s plea to youth: Jain International Trade Organisation (JITO) president Hemant Shah called upon every young Jain to be economically empowered so as to employ 1,000 individuals. Shah was speaking on Thursday at the inauguration of the four-day event comprising multiproduct trade fair, international business and industry conference and Jain pavilion, organised by JITO.
TIMES FOOD GUIDE Yummy is the word Rashmi Uday Singh     You find bliss when you least expect it. I not only believe that, but also advise that you keep your sense of excitement and adventure high and breathlessly and ecstatically devour every moment. Do this even when the going is rough and unsavoury, you never know when (like in my golf game, my TV shoots and my restaurant experiences) you hit the sweet spot. The last few months of hard research (okay! okay! eating) for The Times Food Guide 2008 are a case in point.     Having had many a tummy-turning meal, (gooky, slurpy and tasteless at worst and icky, yucky and lousy at best) exhausted I walk into a brand new tiny eatery huddled along with others in Gasper enclave. My spirits revive. Whoa! I see a regular sitting alone and lustily tucking into his food. A good sign! I (brazenly) pull up a chair and not only join him, order across the menu, but also photograph Michael Freeman who does online production for Tamil and Bollywood films, cooks well and loves this eatery which opened a little over two months ago. Here’s a sneak peek of my review in the forthcoming book The Times Food Guide 2008. MIA CUCINA Like a breath of fresh air wafts in this brand new chef-owner Italian eatery. The young and talented Chef Sanjay Kotian coaxes flavours out of simple and fresh ingredients with the irresistible invitation “step into my kitchen (Mia Cucina)”! And step into his cozy, small Bandra eatery you must. Relax and enjoy the simple teak-wood and brick walled restaurant. White pillars and wooden slatted chairs complete the simple elegance of this restaurant. Take a few moments to enjoy the short but comprehensive menu. Zoom in on the outstanding chicken scallopini de maiale alla romana panfried to perfection and enlivened with lemon butter caper sauce and served with pesto and veggies. As for the rawas ala griglio, it is deliciously chargrilled with an interesting black olive sauce and is a must try. As are the al dente home made pastas. The thin crust pizzas made on a stone oven are flavoursome and made to perfection. Even the desserts (Meeta Makhija’s I was informed) display a similar mastery and the well made panacotta, the melting yet firm and delicious semi freddo and oh! That decadence cake are worth gorging on. Delightfully affordable price points too (mains Rs 225, desserts Rs 95). Swift service, no wine and no valet parking. I welcome this new entrant and hope that it keeps it’s standards high and it’s     price points low. SUGAR FREE BROWNIES Ho! Ho! Ho! After eating non stop I am beginning to look like Santa Claus! Once again, bliss is around the corner. Gaurika Chandok’s sugar free brownies are not just low on calories but high on taste as well! Made with Belgian sugar free chocolate and low fat too. Delightfully chocolaty and I love the texture too. You’d need to order ahead (Rs 60 per brownie) because they have a shelf life of three days and Gaurika makes me afresh each time. Enjoy! Brownie G Kapur Mansion, Pandit Ramabai marg, Hughes rd. Ph 65118888 TIMES FOOD GUIDE 2008 I get even more excited every year. When I wrote the city’s first Food Guide more than ten years ago I was on a perpetual high with the thrill of discovery. Thanks to all of you writing and phoning in I remain plugged in to the yummy foodie network of our city. Your favourite cateres? Tiffin dabbawallas? Dessert makers? Eateries? Share them with me, wont you? (call 22161313, rashmiudaysingh1@gmail.com, contact@rashmiudaysingh.com)     Saif recommends Sadhana for her veg. dishes, stuffed/ plain parathas,and namkeens/puris. Also available tiffin service for residence and office from Goregaon to Malad West area. Call 9833528904.     Bhavyata kanaar from Mahim makes pasta sauces — (tomato,basil n garlic or onions,basil,garlic n fresh mushrooms). Hummus and mutabal — an Arabic dip with baked bringal. Call 9820767002     Free home delivery in Powaii from Waffle Junction which serves hot sweet and savoury Belgium Waffles with more than 20 variety of toppings, milk shakes, sundaes 152/F, 1st Floor, A Wing, Galleria, Hiranandani Gardens, Powai, 022-65244067     Navi Mumbai’s Masala Chai brings to life the “ tapri chaiwallah” from the streets and specialises in Masala Chai, Bumbaiya Cutting Chai to Kashmiri Kahwa Chai cocktails. Vegetarian Deli fare to Fondue and “Bun Maska” center point, plot 21, sector 6, off Palm beach marg. Nerul (W). MIA CUCINA Gasper enclave, 16/17 St John Street, pali naka, Bandra (W) ph 67104000 Open noon to midnight. Credit cards. No bar, No valet parking FOOD 3.75 SERVICE 3.5 AMBIANCE 3.5
To Market, To Market Want to experience the real excitement Down Under? Then head for the stockedto-the-brim Aussie food markets... — SUMITRA SENAPATY     Goose liver pate, bull’s eye and a bag of apples, please... The way to the heart of a city is through its food markets. For the visitor, a market is an on-the-spot lesson in how people trade, relate, converse and exchange. Besides, how else can you find out what’s in season, and what you should be ordering for lunch later that day? CENTRAL MARKET, ADELAIDE Greengrocers hawking their wares at the top of their voices, a tiny Vietnamese lady who looks like 60 but is probably 75 selling you cheap pok choy, scrumptious meats and cheese, the smell of fresh bread and coffee—you get the picture? Central Market is truly a slice of heaven, simply because I love the sheer choice of things… Don’t like big white onions? Buy the small purple ones. Don’t like veggies? Buy meat! It is a great place to people watch, find some fresh produce and take some very good pictures.     My host Mark Gleeson asks me if I would like to try out the Greek yoghurt with the real fruit on top. Mark’s stall is doing instant     salads; new-look stall Jaggers has a couple of dozen dips to choose from. And the main course—no worries—head for a whole range of foodie stalls, with enticing displays of pastas, pizzas, savoury tarts and more. “We do the cooking so people don’t have to worry about it,” says Laura at a food counter, and Mark adds, “It’s not your fast takeaway.” You can top off your market dinner with fruit and cheese. From Barossa Valley to France, the choice of cheeses has grown to dozens. Mark aptly calls one new set of stalls ‘the wall of cheese’. Older European immigrants love the Market’s traditional fare, including tangy and drinkable yoghurt called Kefir. There are dishes from all over the world here. Think of it as something like Marco Polo getting deliciously lost in Central! FISH MARKET, SYDNEY In Sydney, host Marina Albert recommends the Fish Market and when we do go there for lunch, it is packed. We wander through the huge building filled with lots of fresh seafood brought right in that day. The prawns are excellent. In addition to fresh seafood, there are vendors who sell wine (they will uncork it for you), fresh bread, and fruits and vegetables. You get all the extras too—lemons and sauces!     Finding out what people eat can be a good introduction to a city and I think that nowhere is this more fascinating than at the local fish market. Here I see seven major fish retailers selling everything from shark to Balmain bugs (small crayfish), with hundreds of species in between. Local pelicans are constantly on the prowl for the fishy leftovers. There’s also a Doyles restaurant and a sushi bar, a couple of cheap seafood eateries, a fruit market and a pretty good deli.     We almost end up sitting on the ground of the wharf having a picnic because the tables are all full. Marina tells me that this is normal. In fact, there’s much more than just fish at the Fish Market. The gourmet delicatessens have a good range of other products. The multi-coloured fish on beds of ice are beautiful and it’s fascinating to watch as the staff delicately prepares enormous trays of sashimi. With the harbour at its heart and bounded by beaches, Sydney has a passion for the sea—surfing, yachting, fishing—and for its harvests. For the best choice of fresh fish and seafood, discerning cooks head for the Sydney Fish Market, which is so popular that just before Christmas it remains open round the clock. Here you can wander around any of the displays within the market, looking at huge swordfish and tuna, live crabs and yabbies, iridescent trout and translucent salmon, expertly sliced for sashimi. The Fish Market is particularly great if you don’t want to spend a lot of money dining in one of Sydney’s seafood restaurants. QUEEN VICTORIA MARKET, MELBOURNE Queen Victoria market is inarguably the biggest market I have ever seen, with every single variety of everything you could wish for, from fruit and vegetables to boomerangs and didgeridoos, Iron Maiden and Morrison T-shirts and inside the even more Victorian food section, endless stalls selling olives, strong cheeses, Germanic sausage, wine and balsamic, most of it organic. Then there is the meat hall and the dairy hall. Queen Victoria Market has existed since 1863. On Sundays, there is a wine market. Cafés and restaurants pop up around the market. Fresh seafood, fresh fruit, fresh vegetables—the market does take a fresh approach. Find clothing, baggage, toys, jewellery, new-age products and souvenirs at sinful prices. It brings city people in touch with earthy realities. Seeing all that food makes me hungry, so I settle down for a little breakfast at one of the many street cafes. All named in respective mother tongues, of course. Melbourne appears to be one of the few places on earth that does multiculturalism well. As I munch away, gazing at the amazing Victorian brownstone buildings and feel the warm antipodean sunshine on the back of my neck, I decide that Oz is sure worth a repeat visit at some future time. MARKET WATCH CENTRAL MARKET, ADELAIDE Open only on Tuesday, Thursday, Friday and Saturday. Known for multi-cultural cuisine and fresh produce. PADDINGTON MARKET, SYDNEY Showcases the very best of Australian contemporary art, craft and fashion, directly by the artists and artisans themselves. Emerging design, art and fashion students compete for an opportunity to launch their name on the Sydney art, design and fashion scene. QUEEN VICTORIA MARKET, MELBOURNE From late summer to early autumn, as many as 80 different farmers and producers sell triple-washed organic lettuces, biodynamic yoghurt, brook trout, sugar-snap peas, heirloom tomatoes, free-range chickens, homemade pretzels, wood-fired oven focaccia, vegetable-dyed wool and beeswax candles here. Milk is sold in glass bottles. The fish is from fresh rivers and streams, inland. And yes, the apples are big. FISH MARKET, SYDNEY Located on the waterfront at Piermont, the Sydney Fish Market is the largest of its kind in the southern hemisphere and the second largest, for variety, in the world. As many as 800 Australian and 105 overseas suppliers consign fish and seafood to the market, on a regular basis.You can witness seafood auctions every day, starting 5 am.
wine & dine
IN SEARCH OF THE PERFECT… TOFU From ‘Chinese paneer’ to health food Sandra Melwani     Despite its sorry reputation in this country, tofu is slowly being accepted as an edible item that is not just bland ‘Chinese paneer’. In fact, it has many variations, including interesting colours and flavours. Above all, it is super-healthy.     Still unconvinced? Look at the way Chinese cuisine, and lately Japanese too, has evolved in India and the number of dishes that have tofu as a key ingredient. Ma Po Tofu, the renowned and heavily-flavoured dish from Sichuan province in China, is a fine example of how smoothly and silkily tofu is going down.     Tofu is not simply a cholesterol-free alternative to high-fat dairy products but a product that’s packed with protein and B-vitamins, and so a very good substitute for meat, loaded with calcium, and great for keeping bad cholesterol in check. Finally, it helps when you want to shed post-party pounds.     Tofu or bean curd originated in ancient China, where the earliest existing document mentioning the word “doufu” was written 950 AD. Much later, in the 8th century, tofu made its way to Japan and the rest of East Asia, most likely due to the spread of Buddhism and its emphasis on high protein in the vegetarian diet. There are at least four theories concerning the origin of tofu in China and one of them, “the accidental coagulation theory,” states that tofu was developed when a Northerner inadvertently seasoned a pureed soybean soup with unrefined sea salt and then noticed that curds had formed. Another, The Indian import theory, states that the basic method of tofu preparation was imported from dairying tribes or even Indian Buddhist monks.     Not that long ago, the only places in Mumbai to buy one standard type of tofu—the firm chewy kind—were Chinese beauty salons. Today, the same product can be found just a few steps away at the corner grocer, health food store or supermarket for an average of Rs 35 for 250g. However, the prices of other tofu varieties and products available today in the city are also fairly easy to digest. At Rs 140 for about 350g, Silken Tofu (there are two types: extra firm and firm) is suggested for grilling, sautéing, stir-frying, entrees and desserts too! Of the seasoned varieties, Japanese Miso and Chinese Spice that have ginger, garlic and onions as added ingredients are priced between Rs 155-Rs 165 for the same weight. A ‘lite’ version of silken tofu, marketed by the same Japanese company, is also available for around the same cost and weight. Silken or soft tofu contains the highest moisture content among all fresh tofu and can be likened to fine custard in taste and feel.     How is silken tofu different from the spongier Chinese-style tofu? Long ago, the tofu of the Japanese emperor and the royal court required special preparation by skilled Japanese artisans. The result of their labour was a delicately-flavoured tofu of such smooth and creamy texture, it appeared to have been strained through silk.     Quite a few other kinds of tofu exist, and the different methods by which they are processed arose both from a need for preservation, and often just to create distinct varieties. To name a couple of very special ones: Pickled or fermented tofu, soaked in salt water, Chinese wine, vinegar and chilli, and stinky tofu, so-called due to fermentation in vegetable and fish brine. Then there are the sweet and silken dessert kinds, commonly served cold, such as peanut, almond, mango tofu and coconut tofu.     A better appreciation of tofu may be felt if one learnt that for several thousand years, soybeans have remained a vital protein source for the people of East Asia. A type of legume, most soybeans are yellow, though black, brown and green rare varieties also exist. For the large part, soybeans are transformed to make other ingredients such as tofu, Japanese miso (a rich, salty condiment) and shoyu (a dark brown soy sauce made from fermented soybeans and wheat), soybean oil and soy milk, to name a handful. Simply cooked, soybeans can be an interesting addition to soups and salads.     Biscuitwala and Company at Crawford Market in Mumbai adds to the range of soy products by way of canned tofu (from Taiwan) at Rs 250 for 55g, and Singapore-made dry tofu sheets at Rs 400 per 200g and dry tofu sticks for Rs 350 per 150g.
TIMES FOOD GUIDE Celebrating food!     Iain’t no holy man and yet I swoon! In delight. I do so just as the name of the dish promised I would. It’s rare that a daft name of a dish “Imam Bayaldi” (or the “imam fainted”) lives upto itself. Especially the way it is cooked here in the city's brand new Lebanese restaurant. MABRUK (Congratulations) Once again the name is accurate and hits bullseye. This aptly named restaurant deserves to be congratulated for the happy surprises it serves up. Lebanon lands silently and stealthily in the Spaceship like Hotel Sahara Star. I go in equally silently and stealthily. I’m on my research round for the Times Food Guide 2008 and am surprised to hear about this new arrival. I am greeted by a vision in blue in a hat at a rakish angle. In a deep mellifluous voice straight from cedared Lebanon, she guides me into this open “air” restaurant. Large comfy low chairs on a wooden deck sit below the worlds largest pillar less dome and overlook the lagoon area. I devour the handsome black menu with it’s long list of dishes from horiatiki to mishakel (which read like urdu ghazals). Meanwhile a couple seem to be ordering very knowledgably at the neighboring table. I decide to be a “kibbeh me haddi” and introduce myself. Only to find that Sameera has not only been brought up in the Middle East but cooks brilliant Lebanese food for husband Romi. I make a nuisance of myself, request them to eat with me, pay their bill and present to you our palate opinion. THE IMAM FAINTS AGAIN I love the way Lebanese food marries the sophistication of European food with the mystery and excitement of Eastern spices. Notes of paprika and cumin, spike the tomato and onion paste of the grilled garlicky chicken, the superb “shish taouk” (Rs 650) the “king fish souvlaki” (Rs 750)marinated with oregano, lemon zest and white wine are mains which delight. In the hot “mezze” it’s the “kibbeh makli” (Rs 350) lamb dumplings with pine nuts (which are outstanding). The “mohammara” (walnuts, chilli paste, breadcrumbs and pomegranate), the “babaganouj” (roasted eggplant relish), the “tabouleh” (parsley and cracked wheat salad) from the cold mezze tease our taste buds and then please them. Even the feta cheese and thyme samosa like “sambusek bil jibneh” (Rs 350) is tasty. Must end with “Kunafa” (the wheat pastry and marscapone dessert with the lyrical honey rose sauce). On an impulse, just to test the kitchen, Sameera and Romi order an off the menu “Arayes” and are thrilled with the stuffed pita delight. Intrigued with this order the Lebanese chef runs out of the kitchen dish in hand. Chef Jehad Shami (from The Four Seasons Hotel, Lebanon) and his wife (the vision in blue, the manager of the restaurant). Abir Btaddiny are here to deliver Lebanon to us. Even though the prices are on the higher side, the hummus not the best, the “katayif ” dessert too sweet, and not enough veggie dishes in the mains, We are going back again. Mubarak ho! Mabruk! PS In case you are wondering what made the Imam faint... plump grilled and stuffed aubergines. FOODLINE Cant stop smiling. Thank you and God bless you for your calls and emails and warm wishes which are like a pyramid of protective light. Do keep calling and do keep smiling.     Call Jaishree Jariwala cakes, chocolates, sugar crafted items like fruits, flowers, figures, theme based etc. 26323223, 98207 00837.     For BUKHARI (Tashkent) CHICKEN BIRYANI, White Prawn pickle contact Shaheen 26788418/9221335157     Call Manju for Home made Chocolates and cooking classes for Italian, Mexican, Chinese, Moghlai, ice creams, chocolates, chaats, etc. 26350980     For Omani Date Walnut Cake and Eggless Chocolate Cake and Banana Walnut Cake. Call Jayshree 9867675773     Nakoda Hobby Classes-Learn mouthwatering chocolates ,chocolate pudding and many various courses call 9833952729.     Learn Zero oil cooking, Health drinks, Italian, Mexican, Thai, Ice-creams, mock tails, Chinese, Low fat chaats and many more in one day workshops, Contact: 28694542.     Veg and non veg tiffin service also taking party orders contact Nirmala kothekar on 28814797.     For pure veg and hygienic lunch service at your doorstep call Rohini Tiffin Service. Tel.: 9819329222.     Kuku Tiffin service supplies veg and non veg in western line contact on 28643943.     For bhelpuri, sevpuri, idlis chutneys, masala dosas, kebabs, sandwiches etc contact Mrs Vinaya Prabhu on 26175677. MABRUK Sahara star, Opp Domestic Airport, Vile parle. Ph: 39895000 Open for dinner only FOOD 4.25 SERVICE 4 AMBIANCE 4
Mumbai Rediscovered! The Dr. Bhau Daji Lad Museum at the Veermata Jeejabai Udyan is a marvellous example of how the old can be preserved — INDIRA RODERICKS     The Dr. Bhau Daji Lad Museum located within the city zoo complex at Byculla, is a modern-day miracle. Why, because the municipal corporation who are the custodians of the museum actually allowed non-government agencies to renovate and restore the museum. And what a spectacular job has been done!     To begin with, not only are the museum attendants friendlier, they seem more knowledgeable about what’s on display. The electrical wiring has become rather discreet, the display cabinets are polished and etched with what artifacts they hold, the flooring cleaned up, the pillars, railings and ceiling etched with 24 carat gold and bowls of silica gel are now kept inside each display to ensure that they stay fungus-free.     Modelled on the lines of the Victoria and Albert Museum in London, be prepared to spend a good two hours at this place. The ground floor houses the Industrial Art Gallery, there are artifacts from all over, China, Ceylon, Japan, Bangladesh, Burma..., there are examples of lac, coconut carvings, paper mache, soapstone and bidri work. There’s also quite a selection of foreign enamel dishes, mainly from Germany and a few from China, plus armoury suits and weapons display.     On the other side of the ground floor are displays dedicated to the Bombay School Pottery, here you find excellent examples of black pottery, minton pottery, Indian and Allahabad pottery. Don’t miss the Bombay School Paintings room where an ongoing 10-minute film tells you all you need to know about the restoration work of the museum. Before walking up the stairs to the first level, don’t forget to take a look at the conservation room and pick up a souvenir of the museum from the gift shop. Walk up the ornate stairs and you pass by the Founders’ Gallery. Once you reach the first level, there’s the Mumbai Gallery and the Special Exhibits Gallery, the latter which details the restoration work done at the museum. There are dioramas of what the city looked like, clay models of the old professions of the city and communities, displays of how the city has developed economically and religious idols. When done with browsing, take time to admire the ornate railing (look down and you see the life-size statue of Prince Albert), the restored pillars and the freshly painted ceiling.     Until now, most would have chosen to ignore the drab and dilapidated museum building. But now it’s worth a stop and we can even say, it’s even more grand that it’s counterpart at Kala Ghoda. Sadly, the majority of the visitors are those visiting the zoo who simply drop in to have a look at this ‘new building’. What it needs are the buses packed with tourists who instead of being shown Hanging Gardens, should be introduced to this place instead. The museum is open from 10 am to 5.30 pm on all days except Monday, and yes there are entrance fees that vary. The area outside the city zoo is home to the wholesale onion and potato market, amongst other things, that is. Here you fill find tiny stalls filled with sackfuls of onions and potatoes and although most of their customers are retail shop owners, you will find a few individual buyers as well. But there’s a catch, you need to buy a minimum of 2 1/2 kgs and the prices are from Rs. 18 onwards. Depending on what you choose, old or new potatoes, baby potatoes, white or red onions or baby onions. No, you can’t bargain and the vendors are hesitant to let you pick and choose. They simply weigh what you need, and if you end up with some bad onions or rotten potatoes, too bad.
wine & dine
wine & dine
Bubble Rap Phool’s GOLD Speculation on tulips in seventeenth-century Holland severely damaged the country’s economy Gaurav Mashruwala     ASILVER drinking cup, a suit of clothes, a complete bed, one thousand pounds of cheese, two tuns of butter, four tuns of beer, twelve fat sheep, eight fat swine, four fat oxen, two lasts of wheat, four lasts of rye. That was the price a merchant paid for a single tulip bulb in Holland circa 1635. The total value of all those goods at the time was 2,500 florins (the average annual income of a family was 150 florins).     The early 1600s were a golden age in Holland. The region had recently gained independence after a war against Spain. Resources that had been used for war were now available for trade and commerce. Country had a well-established banking system, stock exchanges, and a well-governed society. Amsterdam merchants dominated the European trade in the East Indies. Sometimes, their profit from a single voyage would be 400%. Wealth was being created—and flaunted.     Tulips, originally from Turkey, had been brought to Europe in the mid-sixteenth century. By the 1600s, Europe’s wealthiest would send their agents to Constantinople to procure tulip bulbs at exorbitant prices. As the fashion caught on, it was considered “a proof of bad taste in any man of fortune to be without a collection of them” according to Charles Mackay in his book Extraordinary Popular Delusions and The Madness of Crowds.     The passion for possessing tulips, which was initially restricted to the upper class, soon caught fancy of the middle strata of society. Small shop owners, traders and merchants all started buying tulip bulbs. A trader in Haarlem parted with half his fortune for a single bulb. His main motivation was not to trade, but to earn the admiration of his acquaintances.     Passion soon engendered greed. People started dabbling in tulip bulbs, not to sow them in their gardens, but to sell them at a premium. Prices rose moderately until 1634, but then grew exponentially in the last leg of tulip mania. Trading was so frenzied that a tulip bulb might change hands about 10 times in a single day. Like too many bubbles, things reached a stage where general trade and commerce were neglected, because everyone was busy trying to cash in on the tulip craze. By 1635-36, regular markets had been set up for tulips, near the stock exchange in Amsterdam, Rotterdam, Haarlem, Hoorn, and other cities. In small towns, the largest tavern would double up as a “show-place”. Tulips would be set up in large vases, and highs-lows traded. Often, 200-300 people turned up at these tavern shows in a single day. The tulip trade was so intense that a code of trade was considered necessary, and tulip notaries appointed. There was a general assumption that rich people from around the world would come to Holland to buy tulips. Everyone thought the demand would last forever. People converted their homes, land, and personal possessions into cash so they could trade in tulips. Sometimes, they used their assets as guarantees for future payments for tulips. The result of increased speculation was a “shortage” of bulbs; people now started trading tulip roots. They even started making forward contracts. Visitors to Holland sometimes found themselves in awkward or funny situations. Abraham Munting, a seventeenth-century author who wrote more than 1,000pages on the tulip mania, tells the story of a sailor who had brought a consignment of silk for a Dutch merchant. The silk would bring large profits to the merchant, so, as a reward, the merchant offered the sailor a sumptuous breakfast. Now, the sailor loved onions. When leaving the merchant’s house, he saw a tulip bulb lying on the table. Mistaking it for an onion, he took it, thinking generous merchant would not mind. But before long, the merchant noticed that his prize tulip bulb was missing. Orders were given to scour the entire house. Nothing was found. Then the merchant remembered the sailor. The rich man and his servants hunted all the taverns in town, and eventually found the sailor sitting on a pile of ropes, quietly munching the last morsel of the “onion”. Little did the sailor know he had eaten something worth the cost of maintaining an entire ship crew for a year! The hapless seaman was sent to prison for committing a crime against the merchant.     Between 1634 and 1635, tulip prices shot up by more than 10 times. The bubble peaked in the winter of 1636. This was when people started entering forward contracts, because of the shortage of bulbs. A speculator would promise to pay the cultivator a price agreed in advance, for the delivery of tulips that would grow at a future date. This was called “wind-trade”, because such contracts occurred only in the air, for flowers that did not exist.     Eventually, a few people realised that the craze—which was just fools buying bulbs, and selling them at a higher price to greater fools—could not last forever. Prudent investors sold off their holdings as quickly as they could. And before long, “greater fools” could no longer be found. The market crashed. People reneged on their forward contracts. Cultivators were stuck with huge piles of flowers. Prices fell to a twentieth of their peak value.     The list of defaulters grew by the day. People who had expected to become rich for life only a few weeks before, now found themselves on the brink of poverty and even bankruptcy. Their homes, land, and possessions had been traded for tulip bulbs—which were now worth a fraction of their earlier price.     Cases piled up in the courts, but the courts refused to hear them, arguing that debt contracts in gambling were not debts in law. Several meetings were held locally, and even nationally, but no one could come up with a satisfactory solution. The government couldn’t find a way out, either. Those who had made profits got to keep the money. Those who were stuck with heaps of tulips had to watch them wilt. The country’s trade and commerce took such a severe beating that it was years before the economy recovered.     Gaurav Mashruwala is a Certified Financial Planner. This is the second in a series of articles in     which he discusses famous market bubbles
wine & dine
wine & dine
Manic Panic! Scared that doomsday will soon be upon you? Worry that the mild gastric indigestion may really be sign of an impending heart attack? Welcome to the world of panicology where your fears, real or imagined, take total control, says Nona Walia TIMES NEWS NETWORK     JUST before the cricket match ends, how many of you go into a panic mode? How often do you get the jitters about being sacked? Are you worried often about not getting enough sex? Or why you're not getting pregnant? Ever wondered why do people go in a panic every time the stock market fluctuates!     We've almost made a hobby of panicking. Ask yourself, how often do you wrestle with panic? Don't worry; you're not the only one. Barely a day or week passes without us panicking about something. A Times Life snap poll conducted in metros of India about what’s worth worrying about and what’s not threw up a few surprises.     It seems we're panicking about a variety of things and the menu just got longer. We assessed panic in various areas of life: relationships (including marriage, sex, childlessness), health (obesity and serious illness), hobbies (drinking to dangerous art), society (pensions, debt and migrants), work (stress, jobs, promotion), law and order (including murder and terrorism). We asked men (age 23 to 47), women (23 to 47) and children (9 to 16) about what puts them in a state of panic.     People's fear stories have got wilder. We think of panic as 'something normal'. But how worried should we be about trivial things? Says psychiatrist Dr Avdesh Sharma, "Men fear not being the best. After job and financial anxiety, more men are worried about looking old and not being good in bed. They fear someone younger will replace them at work. There's great panic about losing control and getting angry at home or in public. Some men even worry over not being able to get enough sleep." That isn't all, men fear losing a cricket match, getting stuck in traffic jam, getting into a legal problem, taxation, illness of a loved one. Says cricketer Irfan Pathan, "A cricketer will get panicky before every game. But he can't afford to do that. He needs to be focused and cool. The trick is panic management. Solve your problem."     True. Ask Chandu Behl, 71, Delhi-based businessman, what does he panic about: "I stress about leaving my house unlocked, my business, taxation, road rage, health, fire, safety of loved ones. Most of my panic is imaginary." While rating panic, more men admit, loneliness is a growing fear. Then there's an increasing pressure to be a social animal. Says Karan Chandok, 25, working in a Gurgaon BPO, "I get very panicky when I have to walk to a party all alone. I wonder if I'll get the right partner to dance with. What if girls laugh at me? I feel uneasy when I think about it." A 25-year-old Mumbai boy fears bad luck every time he leaves his house in the morning.     Vinay Lal, director, University of California (UCLA) says, "As India becomes more modern, we're bound to panic differently. We're experiencing different kinds of fears. Some are irrational and illogical. Others are more profound. Migration of people to urban clusters has increased the things we panic about. Fear for safety because of law and order has driven people to seek justice themselves."     Why are we getting fixated with fear? A new book Panicology tries to resolve the angst we feel about situations and things. The authors Simon Briscoe and Hugh Aldersey-Williams, tell Times Life, "It's fashionable to worry about a variety of things, we have a bigger list of exotic worries. The problem is that we are poor at distinguishing between the amusing and entertaining —think of all those scary movies — and the real threats to our lives. We chat more and use the Internet that could be a reassuring process but often works in the opposite direction. It is a shame that we are not better at assessing risk in our lives," says Simon.     We asked a 26-year-old Mumbai girl to rate her scares out of 10, here what she said: Fear of losing a loved one — 10, jealousy — 7, faith issues — 6, loneliness — 8, family problems — 7, evil eye — 4, reputation — 5, clothes malfunction — 9.     Take Surabhi Mathur, schoolteacher, every other morning she panics about leaving the kitchen gas on. Says US-based Indian actor Sheetal Sheth, "Everyday you fret over things. But sometimes we women panic over non-issues. I think, we need to control our impulsive worrying over things like looks, weight etc. Real panic should be over serious concerns."     Can we judge more astutely the real risks that face us? Says Priya Sarukkai Chabria, author, "We need right information to evaluate our fears. In conservative societies, there's fear of losing social standing. There's a pressure to be the best. Just talk to someone and half your anxiety is irrational."     According to Panicology.com, people in different countries might fear different things (the Danes apparently worry most about nuclear power, the British about terrorist attacks, the Italians about radiation from their beloved mobile phones), yet anxiety is everywhere a condition of modern life. Says Hugh Aldersey-Williams, author of Panicology, "Giving people more freedom means that they have more to decide about — what sort of food to eat, what energy to consume, what school, doctor, hospital to use, etc — and this induces worry and panic."     "Children are particularly worried about their bodily changes, and if they're looking like their icons. If a girl is over-weight, she goes through panic," adds Sharma.     The big question is: how should we keep the calm? Says Geetanjali Prasad, relationship and family expert, "When we were in joint family, we could talk about our concerns, now there's no outlet. Hence, we're anxious about everything because we do not have access to right information. There's insecurity, danger of losing job, husband. I was always superstitious when people told my husband we make a great couple. I panicked about nazar. It was crazy but true. Today, stress and competition give you anxiety. It's all about being good in bed, at work, at home. But we need to cut back the stresses and keep our calm."     WORRYING ABOUT     EVERYTHING     When bird flu scare hit Delhi last month, Tandoori chicken was left untouched and uncooked! And when we’d just recovered from this scare, we heard Earth was going to be hit by a satellite. Now, as we near Earth Day, environmentalists are scaring us about a climatic change. Even TIME magazine warns, ‘Be worried, be very worried.’ The science of panicology is taking a new shape. It seems people are worrying themselves silly about everything and anything. From rising prices of petrol, gold to vegetables. Now it’s ladies who’re worrying about going bald.     We’re also freaking out over dry taps and no electricity. Imagine being in an urban office with no water, air-conditioning and non-functional loo! Enough to send you in a panic. Onion shortage is known to give grandmom stress! Just the other day, a woman was panicking how a lunar eclipse in August would throw her life into topsy-turvy. Meanwhile, Italian men not helping much around the house is apparently one of the principal reasons why their women are producing so few babies. While Indians are worrying about overpopulation right now. Going to a cinema hall for a movie brings its own panic attacks, what if there’s a b**b!     Right now, everybody’s     favourite panic story — being fat. The list is long one     with every individual having his/her own     panic story!! What men fear? l 80% men fear accidents l 80.5% panic about their job and finances l 79% worry about their sexual performance l 65.5% stressed about paying bills on time l 70% men fear being laughed at l 50% fear loneliness What women fear? l 85% panic about office politics l 79% fear about relationships — marriage, sex, betrayal l 68% panic about not being liked enough l 50% panic about household jobs, maidservant going on leave (Trivial panics are about weight, looks and health issues. Almost 78% women panic if they put on weight) What children fear? l 80% panic about losing friends l 90% worry about doing badly in exams l 50% fear being laughed at or bullied l 75% girls want to make a good impression
wine & dine
TIMES FOOD GUIDE Have you tasted a garlic dosa? Rashmi Uday Singh     Midway, through lunch I couldn’t stop smiling because I was so excited to be introduced to this new, tiny, no-frills, Walkeshwar eatery and so eager to introduce it to you too. However, I don’t want to oversell it to you because it is so small and cramped that when it gets full you may end up waiting for your table, standing on the trafficked Teenbatti road (like we did at dinner the next day). It also doesn’t ace some of it’s dishes, doesn’t have a liquor license, parking is a pain but it serves tasty, authentic, well-priced Tamilian fare.     Happily, it is not just about idli-dosa and it is pure vegetarian. All dishes are priced between Rs 50 and 60. It’s cheap and cheerful but boy! are they strict about their closing hours? I request my young foodie buddy, Taha Nabee to go ahead and order (thus, we could also judge food and service objectively) and to hang on to the table as it was their closing hour (3 pm). I dash in from the airport and catch Taha in deep conversation and charming the waiters (please see pic). We work out way through the dishes (please see pic again) and almost get thrown out. “It’s good. I’ll come back,” says my well-travelled buddy who is here for a short break from university in the US and pauses to add, “It’s the Swati Snacks of South Indian food.”     The good Lord be praised, we aren’t recognised (the owner, Hemul Gandhi is from Ahmedabad, married to a Tamilian) “Are you opening a restaurant,” he says as he peers suspiciously at me when I go prowling around at dinner the next day. Welcome to Dakshinayan, Mumbai’s latest South Indian eatery (which has landed here via Ahmedabad). Here, go for the lemon sevai (Rs 50) brightened with the spark of lemon and crunchy with slivers of tomato and onion. Indulge...you must ask for all the dishes with ghee (nai) the melting-fluffy yet firm (easily one of the finest in the city) idlis (Rs 50) the large parchment roll of nai roast dosai (Rs 60 ) with the golden rich ghee. And Hema Malini’s favourite Pongal is done to perfection here (“I follow my mother’s recipes, using the finest ghee, rice, dal, black gur and cashews for the sweet one and black pepper corns for the savoury” Hema ji had told me some time ago). I try both versions and recommend both. Even the Bissi beli bhaat (Rs 60) has body and flavour, the ragi dosai the adai dosai (Rs 55) the medu vada (Rs 45) and thayir sadam (Rs 60) come out with flying colours. If you like garlic then go for the garlic dosa. The sambhar is true blue (not sweetened) the molagapodi is the real mckoy of a gunpowder.     The avoidables? Appam not spongy in it’s belly or lacy at the edges and the accompanying kurma lacks flavour. Stodgy dahi wadas, Malabari parathas not available and the icecreams at the end are too watery and 'syntheticy'. The coffee (Rs 15) disappoints, the     tiny eatery gets too cramped and noisy and those wooden stools are uncomfy. But it will still charm those turned off by vacuous polish and higher prices elsewhere and looking for honest tasty food. I am happy to introduce Dakshinayan to you. Prakash Chilly Here’s a dedicated well-travelled gourmet who believes in bottling his passion and he takes time off from his flourishing business to do so with the finest ingredients and to his time-tested recipe. So, if you like it hot then Prakash Thadani has got the just the answer for you. A fiery red blended sauce that can be used as a relish or flavouring to cook exciting tasty delicious meals. Add one tablespoon to marinate, approximately 500 gms of cubed/sliced, diced chicken, or sliced meat, fillet fish, slivers of beef. Stir fry for a few minutes and serve. Use it in veggies, soups or just eat it as it is and go ‘aaaah!’ and ‘ooooh!’ A 250 gm. Bottle for Rs 60. Call on 24301127 or 24229986 or 24373385. DAKSHINAYAN 183, Teen Batti Road, Walkeshwar. Ph 23676701, 23673926 Open 11 am to 3pm, 6-pm. No credit cards. FOOD 4 SERVICE 3.75 AMBIANCE 3
How’s your PURCHASING POWER faring? With inflation touching a 13-month high, it’s all the more important to understand how it affects our lives Devendra Nevgi     INFLATION based on the wholesale price index is at an 13-month high at 6.68%. Inflation refers to a general rise in price levels, and they’re rising at the rate of over 6% a year. In India, whenever elections are around the corner, inflation is a top political issue. In the past, onion prices have given the government the jitters. Inflation can give the RBI governor sleepless nights. Why? Because its effect is powerful. If the inflation rate is, say, 5% a year, it means something that cost Rs 100 a year ago now costs Rs 105. If we go back to, say, the 1980s, a movie ticket cost around Rs 10. Today, at the INOX multiplex in Nariman Point, it costs Rs 200—a 20-fold rise in about 25 years. That’s inflation. If we had futures contracts on movie tickets that we could trade on exchanges, I’d have hedged against movie-ticket inflation in 1980!     Most of us don’t give much thought to the fact that when we hold hard currency like Indian rupees with us, we’re really giving an interest-free loan to the government.     Inflation erodes the purchasing power of paper currency like the rupee. So, after a few years, Rs 100 will buy less than they can buy today. So, by hanging on to currency notes, not only are you giving the government an interest-free loan, you’re also losing purchasing power. Not a very good deal, is it?     There’s another way inflation plays an important—if somewhat strange—role in our lives. Higher inflationary expectations (expected price trends) alter the saving, spending and investment patterns of people. If everyone expects higher inflation, people will tend to spend and invest rather than save, and vice versa. If you took a loan, you stand to gain vis à vis your creditor if inflation rises and the interest rate is not high enough to compensate the lender.     Zimbabwe is a classic example of the havoc inflation can wreak. The International Monetary Fund estimates inflation there is 150,000% this year. That means a loaf of bread becomes more expensive between the time you leave your house and the time you reach the shop!     Inflation also affects future expectations of returns from assets. For instance, bond or stock prices will fall if inflationary expectations are high, since investors will expect higher returns to compensate for higher expected inflation. This phenomenon is called the “inflation risk premium”. If stocks returned, say, 10%, and the inflation rate was 5%, the real return is only 5%.     Recently, the Indian economy has witnessed inflationary pressures due to strong economic growth, demand pressures, and inadequate supply response to the same. Prices of food, primary articles, and oil have triggered inflationary pressures. Real inflation is hardly reflected in the data released by the government in form of WPI (wholesale price inflation) or CPI (consumer price inflation). The administered pricing of petrol results in the understating of inflation.     In the past, the Reserve Bank of India has consistently maintained that the average citizen has no protection against rising prices, that is, no hedge against inflation. In developed markets like the US, the government issued “Treasury Inflation Protected Securities” or TIPS, which give investors an opportunity to hedge against inflation. The coupon (interest) rate of TIPS is fixed, but the underlying principal moves in tandem with US inflation. At redemption, investors get the value thus arrived at, or the face value—whichever is higher. Banks and financial Institutions usually buy wholesale and create a retail market for such securities. A retail investor can buy such securities and hedge against inflation.     The Indian government and RBI so far have not issued any significant inflation-linked bonds. People have no choice but to rely on traditional methods to manage inflation, such as gold. But there are plenty of reasons for our government to issue inflation-linked bonds. First, inflationlinked bonds would make the government accountable for inflation, since the cost of borrowings will be linked to inflation. Second, offering such bonds at the retail level, where participation is currently minimal, would help the government to broaden the investor base. Third, the government could diversify debt service costs in a deflationary (falling prices) scenario. Fifth, inflation-linked bonds would very likely reduce the inflation risk premium embedded in government bonds. And sixth, FIIs’ access to inflation-linked bonds would allow them to hedge their inflation risks, which are currently expressed in the currency market. It would thus help reduce the volatility between the US dollar and the Indian rupee.     From the perspective of the RBI, too, inflation-linked bonds make good sense for several reasons. First, the central bank can quantify and control inflationary expectations embedded in the markets. Second, the onus on monetary policy tools such as interest rates to contain inflation will reduce if RBI can guide inflationary expectations with an excellent communication policy. Third, the more effective a central bank’s ability to stabilise inflation, the greater its credibility. Fourth, RBI can use inferences from trading in such bonds in formulating its monetary policy. Fifth, sovereign inflation-linked bonds can be part of foreign exchange reserve investments. For investors in general, too, inflationlinked bonds could offer distinct advantages. First and most obvious, they allow investors to hedge against purchasing power (inflation) risk. Thus their capital is inflation risk-protected. Second, inflation-linked bonds are universally regarded as a separate asset class, and provide diversification benefits to a portfolio due to their negative correlation with returns from traditional asset classes. Third, such bonds provide a positive risk-reward relationship. And fourth, inflation-linked bonds are an effective vehicle for institutional investors to hedge risks when longterm liabilities are inflation-linked or linked to future wage levels. The government and RBI can take steps to ensure awareness, education and liquidity (active secondary markets) on inflation-linked bonds at the retail level. Its time investors and market participants could express their views on inflation, as well as hedge against it. Devendra Nevgi is CEO & CIO, Quantum Asset Management
Restaurant owners seek VAT relief Sandhya Nair I TNN Mumbai: Your idli, dosa and cup of chai could just get costlier. The increasing prices of vegetables, fruits, pulses and of course cooking gas is forcing hoteliers to do a rethink on their menu. Restaurant owners in Maharashtra are already bearing the 12.5% Value Added Tax (VAT), which they say is still not passed on to customers, and now this is an added burden. “Despite a heavy VAT since April 2005 we have not passed on the burden to the public. Prices of commodities are rising steeply and even that has not been passed on to customers,’’ said Santosh Shetty, secretary of the Indian Hotel and Restaurant Association, which has around 6,500 member hoteliers. A cup of chai, which is now available at most restaurants for Rs 6 or 7 might go up to Rs 10 or 12. Three years ago, it was about Rs 5. A cup of coffee could go up to Rs 20 since the price of milk     has been going up by a rupee almost every month, said a hotelier at Matunga. “A litre of milk is sold for Rs 29. For the last six months, the price of milk has been going up by a rupee every month. Next month it will definitely touch Rs 30 a litre,’’ said the hotelier.     The last price hike in restaurants was around eight months ago, before the onion scarcity in October 2007. “We had increased the price of food items by a rupee or two in September last year. In October, the price of onions shot up but we didn’t hike our rates,’’ said a hotelier at Dadar.     An item that will perhaps be most affected is the popular thali (lunch plate). What used to be priced at Rs 30 to 35 three years ago, is today not less than Rs 40 to 45. It is expected to go up to Rs 50 to 55. Office-goers who swear by the thali say they have already been noticing a change in the composition of a thali. “Cabbage and brinjal have become a daily component in the thali. Earlier, there used to be a mix of cauliflower, beans and green peas. The dal has become more watery. The size of the plate has also reduced,’’ said Mayur Rode, who has a staple vegetarian thali near the Bombay Stock Exchange for Rs 45.     Though the price rise phenomenon is worrying hoteliers across India, in Maharashtra restaurateurs also seem concerned about VAT. Till April 2005, hotels in the state were paying a VAT of 1 to 2%. This was directly raised to 12.5%. VAT is relatively low in other states like Tamil Nadu (2%), Goa (3%) and Gujarat (4%). “We can bear the effects of rising prices only if VAT is reduced to 4%. Otherwise, we have little choice but to increase the price of food items in the coming months,’’ said Shetty.     Restaurants are taking a beating in other spheres too. Restaurant owners say a number of hotels have shut shop and rented out space. “In the Fort area alone, 25 to 30 eating houses have shut down in the last one year. New restaurants are also not coming up,’’ said Shetty.     Along with rising prices, hawkers too are eating into their business, say restaurant owners. Licensed hotels have to pay Rs 1,100 for commercial Liquefied Petroleum Gas (LPG), while hawkers use the household LPG cylinder which costs not more than Rs 400. Hotels pay Rs 250 per 10,000 litres of water, while hawkers draw their requirement free of cost. The same is the case with electricity—while restaurants have to shell out Rs 10 per unit, hawkers get power for nothing.     The hotel menu may force the public to opt for a Rs 12 toast sandwich or a Rs 2.50 cutting chai at a roadside hawker’s stall. But the price hike is hitting them too. “We may have to raise the price of food items by at least a rupee to beat the price hike. Every ingredient that goes into preparing the food is shooting up,’’ said Mahendra Singh, a sandwich seller near Famous Studio, Mahalaxmi.     sandhya.nair@timesgroup.com 
Govt cuts duty on edible oils, bans non-basmati rice export Steps Aimed At Checking Prices, Boosting Supplies TIMES NEWS NETWORK New Delhi: In a bid to check inflation which has climbed to a politically untenable 6.68%, the Manmohan Singh government late on Monday night announced that it was reducing import duties on all edible oils to zero and banning all exports of non-basmati rice. These measures are aimed at easing food supplies and driving down prices.     Speaking to the media, finance minister P Chidambaram said even for basmati rice, only those varieties at the top end, at more than $1,200 a tonne, would be open to exports. On hydrogenated vegetable fats and oils, the import duties have been brought down to 7.5%. For maize, duties have been reduced from 15% to zero up to five lakh tonnes.     The duty reduction for edible oils is in the non-refined category and for refined oils it will be 7.5%. While not announcing measures for steel, Chidambaram said government was “strongly urging’’ restraint in prices as it promised to bring together iron ore producers and manufacturers to resolve issues. States have been urged to use provisions to impose stock limits.     The government also extended the export ban on pulses for another year and brought down import duties on ghee and butter from 40% to 30%.     While the government has take some sweeping measures, it remains to be seen if these will be able to bring down prices of commodities, foodgrains and pulses swiftly enough. It does appear though that political imperatives have ensured that differing positions of ministries on import duty cuts have been overridden by inflation worries. TIGHTENING GRIP OF INFLATION 1 The Problem Official inflation rate has more than doubled in last four months from 3.3% to 6.7% Inflation in food item prices has risen from 1.8% in December to 5.6% on March 15     Pressure on the poor is worse as their consumption basket consists more of food items which are becoming costlier 2 What Netas Say CPM has set an April 15 deadline for govt to curb prices Cong core committee has asked govt to check inflation fearing adverse impact on electoral prospects BJP has threatened countrywide protests from April 7 Chidambaram says check on inflation will lower growth 3 Why They Say This Inflation has been the most potent election issue in India In 1980, high onion prices were seen as the main reason for Cong’s return to power. In the 1998 assembly polls in MP, Rajasthan and Delhi, high onion prices saw ruling governments being swept out 4 What Could Follow Tight money supply to curb prices Higher interest rates for industry and individuals This may squeeze demand, impact growth There could be trouble for stock markets and real estate 5 Options & Difficulties     Import grain, edible oils & pulses to curb prices. Will not help as global prices also running high. Unless subsidised, imports will not curb prices Cut import duties on commodities. But that will antagonise domestic producers. In any case, global prices are running high
Inflation at 7%. Can US recession help? Prices Of Food Products, Manufactured Goods Rise Fall In Global Demand May Ease Pressure TIMES NEWS NETWORK New Delhi: As prices of vegetables, cereals and various manufactured goods continue to rise, inflation further rose to a 39-month high of 7% during the week ended March 22, up from 6.68% in the previous week. Inflation had touched 7.02% for the week ended December 4, 2004.     According to data released by government, prices of gram (chana) rose by 2.7% to Rs 38 per kg on April 1 as against Rs 37 a month-earlier. Sugar now costs nearly 6% more at Rs 18 per kg, mustard oil by 2.6% at Rs 77 per kg, vanaspati by 10.14% at Rs 76 per kg and onion by 11.11% at Rs 10 per kg in the said period.     However, prices of commodities like rice, wheat, atta, tur, groundnut oil, milk, potato and salt remained stable. And, after taking steps like duty cuts to boost supply, government is now thinking of some tough measures.     Commerce and industry minister Kamal Nath said the government will not hesitate to take the harshest measures, including using legal provisions against hoarding and profiteering in any items like food, cement or steel.     Nath said the country is facing the biggest challenge of providing food to poor people. On March 31, just after the inflation had crossed 6.5% mark, government had asked state governments to initiate steps to discourage hoarding of food stocks by individual traders under Essential Commodities Act.     The government on the same day also announced the scrapping of import duties on crude edible oils to nil and refined edible oils to 7.5%, along with banning exports of non-basmati rice and increasing export price of basmati rice to check inflation at home.     The prices of many of the food items have declined since the government has taken measures. But, it will reflect in the inflation figure for the week ended April 4, 2008, whose will come after a 15 days.     During the week under review, which ended on March 22, prices of fruits and vegetable went up by 1%, gram went up by 3%, masur by 2%, while urad and moong, eggs, meat and fish got dearer by 1%. Prices of oil seeds also rose by around 5%.     In the mineral category, the prices rose very sharply. Price of iron ore increased 46% and price index for mineral went up by 38.2%. Inflation in the primary articles stood at 8.96% as against 5.6% in the food articles.     The government hopes that inflation could be arrested soon as the demand for commodities in the international market will come down because of the feared recession in the developed countries, particularly the US. Meanwhile, it is keeping a close watch on the price front.     If needed, a senior government official said, RBI will take measures to tighten the liquidity condition, even though it might affect the economic growth in the country.
IN SEARCH OF THE PERFECT… LOCAL GREENS Country cousins of the veggie world Vikram Doctor | TNN     Ihad just come out from a gourmet food store in Breach Candy feeling both greedy and frustrated. Almost nothing there seemed priced at less than three digits and since I was feeling a bit broke I hadn’t bought anything. But then I noticed an old man sitting at the corner opposite Cadbury House with a big cloth bag full of green leaves before him. They were branches of the drumstick tree, moringa or shevga, with their neat rows of dark green leaves. He told me they had been cut that morning from a tree in Hanging Gardens. For Rs 15 I bought half his basket and used the leaves by scrambling them with eggs, adding them to dal and making a thoran, the dry stir-fry with coconut from Kerala. Three delicious and nutritious dishes from a locally grown plant for a fraction of the average price of any item in that store.     In the interests of the trees in Hanging Gardens, I wouldn’t exactly recommend looking out for this old man. But with the prices for regular vegetables threatening to touch those in that store, it might be time to look at the many excellent and generally low priced local greens like drumstick leaves. The term for these is indigenous vegetables and India has a remarkable variety of them. Just in the Mumbai market, depending on the season, you can find two-three types of chavli (amaranths), bathua (chenopodium album), mayalu (Malabar spinach, basella alba), ambadi (gongura), drumstick leaves and more. Sudhir Kumar, a botanist, lists 278 varieties in his book, Leafy and Edible Plants of North-East India, while in just one district of Andhra Pradesh the Deccan Development Society found 80 varieties of shrubs, creepers, leaves and shoots that are not cultivated, but foraged by the rural poor.     For such poor people, these plants provide vital nutrients in their diet. Many older people are also aware of their value, and often our only encounter with these plants is being told by our grandparents to eat them. But that is the problem—since we associate them with the poor or the old, we stop eating them as we grow more affluent. M L Chadha, director of the regional centre, in Hyderabad, of AVRDC-The World Vegetable Center—the leading international organization dealing with vegetables—notes that the declining consumption means these vegetables are falling out of the foraging cycle and getting even rarer. “It is resulting in even faster disappearance of indigenous crops and loss of biodiversity,” he says.     What is ironic is that the use of such plants, with their many health benefits, is dropping just as concerns about health and the fad for organic foods has never been higher. These plants are naturally organic since they are not formally cultivated, being either gathered from the wild, or grown on the side, often by farmers’ wives as a way to make a little money. People are reluctant to use them because occasionally one finds small insects or slugs in them so they are more trouble to wash and prepare. Yet a moment’s thought should tell you that the presence of these insects, while distasteful, is actually a guarantee that they haven’t been drenched in the pesticides that are showing up in alarming levels in many of our local fruits and vegetables. Rather than pay fancy amounts for so-called organic produce, we should just be looking for these gavti greens.     They are not easy to find, because their low value means that regular vegetable sellers and supermarkets disdain them. You have to look at the margins of the markets where you’ll find the sellers, nearly always women and often older, sitting amid piles of leaves and shoots. At City Lights market in Mahim, Meenakshi Chudasama has to set up her stall outside the gate, near a toilet. But from her I’ve bought things like pumpkin flowers that are luscious when fried, or the thick green shoots of onion plants that I had to wrest from her, because she said a Bengali customer was nuts about pyaazkali as he called them.     This didn’t surprise me because Bengalis are among the few who still value these vegetables or shaaks, and the pyaazkali was really delicious, with a delicate oniony flavour. Not all such greens are that noteworthy from a taste viewpoint—I can’t really tell all the chawlis or bhatua apart. But the best ones like the thick meaty leaves of mayalu or ambadi with its wonderful acid bite make for a winning combination of delicious dishes, good health and little strain on the wallet.
Short Circuit Demand-supply mismatch fuels inflation     The spectre of inflation is haunting India. With inflation at 7 per cent, fears that the economy could slow down are real. That rising food prices are contributing to inflation is reason enough for the government to worry. Onion prices have in the past decided the winner in elections. The present phase of inflation has come after a long period of sustained growth. After a period of plenty, we are facing a situation of shortage. The problem with inflation is that it is a self-fulfilling prophecy. Expectations of impending inflation lead to further inflation. So far, the government and the RBI have tried to contain inflation through monetary policies, essentially by sucking out excess liquidity in the market. Over-dependence on monetary measures to control inflation could slow down industrial growth and lead to recession.     The government should crack down on hoarders, while advising consumers not to panic. A slew of policy measures is necessary to address supply-side shortages. In the case of food, the government has already proposed duty cuts to facilitate imports and has banned the export of cereals and edible oil. More needs to be done. There is greater demand for food in India now, which is welcome. But our production has not kept pace with the increase in demand. Food prices across the world have hardened in response to shortages in India. It may become necessary for the government to subsidise imports to keep domestic prices under control. However, this has to be done without hurting the interests of producers at home.     All these are short-term solutions. Food security calls for long-term planning in order to correct the mismatch between demand and supply. Foodgrains don’t fetch attractive prices and farmers are migrating to cash crops. The trend is not unique to India; in countries like the US farmers are shifting from corn to biofuels. As rice and wheat prices off the farm don’t reflect the increase in input costs, there is need to incentivise cereal production. One way to make foodgrain cultivation profitable is to increase productivity.     Experts claim that a 50 per cent increase in yields is possible if we judiciously use technology that is currently available. Our average yields per hectare in rice and wheat are half that of China. Moreover, the pressure on land is only going to increase as India rapidly urbanises. As such, the focus ought to be on increasing productivity and plugging leakages in procurement and distribution. Better extension services and procurement and distribution networks are necessary if food prices are to be kept under check. All such policies have to benefit both producers and consumers. Else, onion-tears will be shed.
Fruits, veggies costlier, but don’t blame inflation TIMES NEWS NETWORK Mumbai: Prices of fruits and vegetables have hit the roof, but this has nothing to do with the recent government announcement that inflation has reached 7%. While last month’s unseasonal rains are partly to blame, Agriculture Produce Market Committee (APMC) officials say that hoarding by traders is causing prices to shoot up. Local vendors are making the most of the situation.     Agriculture Produce Market Committee (APMC) officials at Navi Mumbai say that large-scale hoarding is causing prices to shoot up. “Traders dealing in grains and pulses are hoarding as they expect inflation to further take up the price. Vegetable traders are doing the same thing with onions and potatoes as it has a longer storage capacity. They are allowing the price to shoot up before releasing onions and potatoes in the market,’’ said an APMC official.     While onions cost over Rs 25 a kilo, after it was Rs 8-10 a kilo a few weeks back, potatoes are going at Rs 18-20 a kilo, depending on size and quality.     Ditto for vegetables that have a longer shelf life. French beans cost around Rs 40-45 a kilo, while bitter gourd costs not less than Rs 36 a kilo. A quarter kilo of capsicum costs nothing less than Rs 12-15. “These vegetables can be hoarded longer than, say, tomatoes. So traders are not releasing them for a longer period,’’ the official pointed out.     But tomatoes are not getting cheaper too, priced as they are at Rs 20-22 a kilo. The tomato crop took a beating due to the unseasonal rains last month. Vendors insist that tomatoes will get costlier. In January, tomatoes were available for Rs 8-10 a kilo. Vendors, on their part, are making a killing and not leaving any scope for bargaining, especially when it comes to fruits. Grapes, despite being available in plenty in the retail market, sell for nothing less than Rs 40-45 a kilo. “Vendors are not willing to bargain below this price. It has been almost a month since grapes have hit the market but the price is still steep. Earlier prices would drop when supply increased,’’ said a housewife Rajshri D’Cunha.     Apples are selling for Rs 100-120 a kilo under the banner ‘Australian Apples’. Water melons with different names like ‘Sugar Baby’, ‘China Melon’, ‘Double Patta’ are costing anywhere from Rs 25 to Rs 50, even though they are in large supply.     In other fare, seafood has become among the costliest items. “I got two vatas of prawns for Rs 300. The fisherwoman would not agree for anything less,’’ said housewife Sudha Nagrani. A pair of pomfrets was selling at Rs 600-plus.     The price of milk too has been rising drastically. A litre of fresh milk is currently Rs 32 a litre. The price of milk has been steadily rising by a rupee or two for the past month. ‘Get tough with hoarders’ Mumbai: Union agriculture minister Sharad Pawar said the state government should take action against hoarders in a bid to curb the price rise. rni thanked the minister for getting the planning commission’s approval for the Rs 18,000-crore offshore terminal at the port.     Responding to Kulkarni’s remarks that he wished the NCP chief would become the prime minister, Pawar said his aim was not to become the PM, but to serve the people.     “Over the last 42 years, I have been filing my nomination papers and the people have elected me to the Assembly and Lok Sabha,’’ the Maratha strongman added. AGENCIES     Speaking at a function organised by the transport and dock workers union, he stressed the need for protecting the Mumbai Port Trust and defended its expansion plans.     Union secretary S R Kulka-
Eat healthy this season! Summer is the time when veggies should be your main course, Indira Rodericks tells you how...     There must be some truth when people say it’s wise to go veggie in summer. With the temperatures rising and the heat showing no respite, it’s a good reason to switch to some healthy vegetables and take a break from your usual fare of say, meat or fish. Of course, today you can get almost everything throughout the year, but somehow, cucumbers and tomatoes are more appealing and perhaps taste better during these hot months.     Walk past any vegetable market and be amazed at what you see. Stacked of vegetables, some fresh and well some sprinkled with water to look fresh, in every imaginable colours, the dark blood-red beets, the green broad beans, the very summery yellow lemons and the rich and royal purple brinjal. Prices rise and prices fall, depending on what arrives in surplus, but we don’t think vegetables have reached that exorbitant, unaffordable level yet. Cucumbers is everybody’s favourite during the summer. Of course you can lightly stir-fry it, but it is best eaten raw, with a little salt, chillie or paprika powder and dash of lemon. All over the city, the humble cucumber is sold on handcarts, though not always fresh, but a quick healthy summer snack, nevertheless. Tomatoes, both green and red is also a popular choice together with crisp spring onions (don’t forget to use a bit of the green stalks as well), red radish and fresh lettuce. You need to acquire a taste for green tomatoes and what most people do is lightly saute them in olive oil and garlic for a bit of flavour. With the varieties of salad available today, the choices are many, but the trick is to soak the leaves in cold water and pat them dry before making your salad. Also, instead of cutting the leaves, simply break them off. The fresher the lettuce the easier they break and crunchier the taste. Beans, both the broad beans or papri, french beans and gherkins or tendli are also a favourite. And while buying gherkins look for the green variety, minus any dashes of yellow. That simply means they are overripe and lack the crisp flavour. This is also the season for cabbages, again both red and greed. Cooking sliced cabbage is what we do throughout the year, for summer its a salad you must make. You can use both varieties and the trick is to slice them very, very finely. Add a bit of chopped green chillie, salt and pepper and finally lemon.     It’s the same with cauliflower, instead of cooking it with all the seasonings, you can simply boil the little florets, sprinkle with pepper and eat. This might not appeal to everybody, so another option is to use the boiled cauliflower is a tossed salad or pour a bit of white sauce (don’t forget to add the mustard) on the florets arranged in a dish, grate some cheese onto it and bake. Eat immediately for best results. Meaning that it is best enjoyed fresh. Ridge gourd and snake gourd are also seen in plenty. For the snake gourd, lightly scrape the vegetable, remove the fibres inside and cut into three inch pieces, lightly boil and then fill these little tubes with a filling of your choice, it could be chicken, meat, prawn or vegetable mashed potato filling. Roll lightly into a bit of egg white, then breadcrumbs and fry. If you are a vegetarian, simply skip the egg process.     Finally, summer’s best, the lemon or sour lime. You can squeeze in on every possible raw vegetable eaten but it makes the most refreshing summer drink. Extract the juice, but be careful not completely to the rind or the bitterness will come through. Make a sugar syrup and add the unstrained juice minus any seeds. For added flavour and for a solution to all your throat infections, add a bit of freshly squeezed ginger. You don’t need any preservatives, if you keep this syrup in the fridge. But remember since it has no artificial flavourings, it should be consumed quickly. Now can you think of anything more refreshing that this... indira.rodericks@timesgroup.com 
Don’t Hold Us Back Petty politicians have thwarted India’s great power ambitions Meghnad Desai These are strange times. We have a deep financial crisis. Since last summer, several rescue attempts by three major central banks — Fed, European Central Bank and Bank of England — have still not resolved it. I expect that the restructuring of asset values while restoring liquidity will take its time and then we will have to devise new regulatory structures. So the next two years will be busy for the central banks and for the Bank of International Settlement at Basle.     But we also have inflation in food prices, which is worldwide, and oil prices that seem to defy gravity. Of course, the dollar having depreciated the price of oil quoted in terms of dollars is bound to go up just for that reason. In real terms, an oil price of $105 is just equal to the peak price of 1980. Yet the nagging question remains: Are we in the midst of a routine post-war cycle or are we at the conjuncture of some great shift in the global economy? Let me explore the latter option.     We begin with the cliche that this time around it is not the developed West which is in the vanguard of the global economy, but India and China and the other emerging economies, especially Brazil, which will shape the system. The oil price rise is driven almost entirely by China’s demand and the chaotic politics of Nigeria and Venezuela. The high growth rate of the emerging economies plus the large excess savings they have as reflected in their reserves will mean a shift of ownership of assets as the western economies consume and the growing emerging economies invest in these assets.     There was an idea that the emerging economies would be decoupled from the western economies and insulated from the downturn. But financial flows bind them in a symbiotic embrace. The surplus savings sustain the innovative but indolent West while the frugal but copycat emerging economies lap up the new innovations and turn them into wealth. The latter have the workforce and the former have the brain force. As long as trade flows are reasonably free of protectionist forces the symbiosis ought to work.     The inflationary forces arise as a logic of this symbiosis. The emerging economies save but what they consume are necessities, mainly food, as previously poor families can afford to eat what their parents could only dream of. Their industrial activity is still run on old energy-intensive lines which went out in the western economies in the 1980s. So oil and food rise in price while computers, mobile phones and iPods get cheaper. This is why the overall price indexes show even now a much lower rate of inflation than people experience in their daily shopping. Prices of what they buy daily or weekly are going up fast as industrial products get cheaper.     This is true of emerging and western economies. But petrol bites more in western economies. Yet in these economies, citizens and politicians do not expect governments to bring inflation down immediately nor do they blame the party in power for the price of onions. The economic ignorance on display in Indian politics is breathtaking. Many cultures believe in witch doctors to bring rainfall or cure epidemics. Why should governments be able to either cause inflation or cure it instantaneously? Demands to restrict traders or nationalise them or ban forward trading are as futile as rushing to the well of the Lok Sabha. Indeed the BJP may as well chant the Hanuman Chalisa while they are at it. The Left will have to find some suitably obscure text from its archives. Marx is no help in these matters because he does not share the ignorance of the Indian Left on economics. The present situation has tremendous longrun consequences for India if only there was awareness among politicians about it. India could become a great power along with China and Brazil, with the US as the only serious survivor from the western economies. But if India is to become a great power, it needs to play a winner and not a victim. The Left is wedded to the 1950s’ Leninist orthodoxy in which the monopoly capitalists of the western economies block the developing economies and only persistent anti-Americanism assures autonomy and growth. China has abandoned this naive doctrine, as has Vietnam. Only North Korea and Cuba hang on to it. The nationalists of the BJP are too hung up on Pakistan and trivialities like Ram Setu. Obsessive concerns with reservations occupy the rest of the parties. (Does Mayawati have a foreign policy? Does she even have a map of the world in her office?) The Congress, which should have the sense to break free of such small-mindedness, is too preoccupied with preparing the way for Rahul Gandhi’s succession and has no wish to challenge the Left or even the BJP. Hence the total stagnation on the US nuclear deal for the last 10 months. Hence the timid reshuffle, which did not give the younger generation its due place. Indian business has retooled itself, given its younger generation trained in Harvard, Stanford and Wharton leadership positions and taking on the world. Indian politics, however, is stuck in the parochial and trivial concerns of geriatric has-beens. Politics in India is a century behind its business. India cannot hope to be a great power with small politicians. The writer is a member of the British House of Lords.
petiquette ‘Pet’hetic! Visit the city’s only pet market, and be shocked at what you see     The pet market at Crawford Market takes the issue of cruelty to animals to a different level. If you have never ever visited this place, then perhaps you shouldn’t. But the big question often asked by people is why is the place still functioning as a pet market. Pet lovers, dog owners, professional breeders, trainers, vets, handlers... everyone of them will tell you a million reasons why the place should shut down.     The entrance to this particular market is opposite Haj House. It is not a large market, in the sense you won’t find too many stalls, but what you will see are many animals locked together in cages, sitting huddled and terribly frightened. There are dogs, cats, rabbits, hamsters, love birds, pigeons and fish.     Until recently, you would even find the green Nepal parrots but they have long since been banned. But we remember a couple of years ago, walking into the meat section located alongside and finding these green parrots tied in loose sack cloth and kept in hiding in huge baskets. For the pet shop owners, it seemed the perfect plan, keep these banned birds with the butchers, and if the officials came s e a rch i n g , that’s the last place they would look.     The shop owners are only too eager to show you the animals they have for sale. especially the dogs. They tell you they have Labradors, Dalmatians, Dobermans, Alsatians, Pomenarians and quite a number of mixed breeds as well. The prices they quote for the dogs are exhorbidant, but this is a market and naturally you will bargain. They assure you of the breeds and promise to hand over the ‘papers’ should you want to mate your dog. And yes, say you already own a dog minus the papers, for an amount they will gladly provide you the same. Says Rati Jhaveri of the Indian National Kennel Club. “This is the last place you should go looking for a puppy. It is very difficult to tell breeds apart when they are puppies, they all have similar markings. When we need to register a dog with unknown parents, we wait till the dog is atleast six months old. And even then if we are not satisfied about the breed, we tell the owner to wait a little longer. When the breed is being registered with the club, it needs to have three generations in it. I don’t think these pet shop owners can provide that. Otherwise, mating would be a problem.” So go if you must to look around but buy? No! FEEDING FIDO! • Stick with healthy, unprocessed ingredients. Think lean meats, whole grains, and vegetables rather than leftover rolls, or fries. • Know and avoid foods that are dangerous for dogs, such as chocolate and onions. • Keep it balanced. Recipes are meant to be occasional treats, not the mainstay of your dog's diet. If you want to cook all your dog's food, consult a vet or a veterinary nutritionist to make sure your homestyle meals supply all the nutrients your pooch needs. • Add in homecooked food slowly. Sudden changes in diet can cause tummy upset. MUTT MYTHS Myth: Tapeworms come from bad food. Fact: Pets become infected with tape worms from swallowing fleas, which carry the parasite. Also, cats can get tapeworms from eating infected mice or other exposed animals.
IN SEARCH OF THE PERFECT… CLUB SANDWICH Take a ride on an edible double-decker Sandra Melwani     One evening, a man reached home after the rest of the household had retired. He raided the larder and found many things to eat, but they were all in tiny quantities. So he got himself some slices of cold bacon and pieces of chicken, and a tomato; put them together between some bread, and went to bed satisfied.     The next time the man visited his club, he talked about the yummy experiment to his buddies, who insisted on tasting his invention right away. Soon, word spread about the intriguing “club sandwich” and that, one hears, is how the name came to stick.     Club sandwiches may have been invented in a New York gambling club in the 19th century but Alok Vegetarian Restaurant in Thane (West) gives them a new meaning this season, describing these delicious triple-decker sandwiches as ‘relax foods’ on their menu.     Also called ‘clubhouse sandwiches’, they are mostly two or threetiered affairs of turkey , bacon, lettuce, and tomato on toasted bread, which may be held together by toothpicks. Sometimes, ham takes the place of bacon, and chicken of turkey; untoasted bread is used as well. In the words of one fan though, “The bread has to be toasted and not too thick to bite; nor should it be sliced too thin or the sandwich will fall apart. And the secret of the nonvegetarian ones is bacon because it provides the salty flavour.”     Practically all clubs across the country have them on their menus, in prices ranging from Rs 25 for a curried chicken and egg combination to about Rs 80 for one that includes bacon and ham with multi-grain bread.     Candies in Bandra sells non-veg club sandwiches, consisting of chicken slices, cheese and a fried egg, for Rs 40 per triangle (half a sandwich). In Mumbai, where most sandwiches are vegetarian, there are those who feel vegetarian clubs do not taste as good because they lack taste and texture.     Incidentally, the first vegetarian sandwich noted in history was created by Hillel the Elder, a famous Rabbi of the 1st century B.C. who combined nuts, spices, wine and apples, and spread them between a couple of matzot (unleavened bread), to be consumed with bitter herbs for the Passover. Hillel thought the bread represented the mortar used by Jewish slaves in constructing buildings for the Egyptians, while the filling between the pieces of bread served as a reminder of the suffering of the Jews. As a result, he is recognised as the inventor of the ‘sandwich’, long before John Montagu, 4th Earl of Sandwich.     Many centuries on, simple rustic bread is excitingly replaced by sliced white, multi- grain and croissants; of the leaves: iceberg lettuce, arugula, rocket, indeed any favourite of any colour will do. And ‘meat’ is smoked turkey, herbed chicken slices or honey-glazed ham or grilled bacon or all of them. One ‘seaside club sandwich’ recipe even suggests smoked salmon or cooked crab meat as an ingredient option.     The Army restaurant in Fort certainly reflects changed times with their vegetarian and non-vegetarian club sandwiches. The former, at Rs. 20, encompass not just the expected cucumber and tomato but slices of onion, beetroot and potato too; the latter: chicken, omelette, and the option of added vegetables, for Rs 45.     There is an opinion that the sandwich was born in the 1930s and 40s on the double-decker club cars of early American trains that travelled between New York and Chicago. Perhaps doubling or tripling the size of a regular sized sandwich into a club was done one lazy, summer — the perfect time to slow down and experience the pleasure of eating, one layer at a time.
Environmental cost of shipping groceries Never has food moved around the world at the speed or in the amounts it has over the last few years. Now, many say it is time to make shippers and shoppers pay for the resulting pollution Elisabeth Rosenthal     Cod caught off Norway is shipped to China to be turned into filets, then shipped back to Norway for sale. Argentine lemons fill supermarket shelves on the Citrus Coast of Spain, as local lemons rot on the ground. Half of Europe’s peas are grown and packaged in Kenya. In the United States, FreshDirect proclaims kiwi season has expanded to “All year!” now that Italy has become the world’s leading supplier of New Zealand’s national fruit, taking over in the Southern Hemisphere’s winter.     Food has moved around the world since Europeans brought tea from China, but never at the speed or in the amounts it has over the last few years. Consumers in not only the richest nations but, increasingly, the developing world expect food whenever they crave it, with no concession to season or geography. Increasingly efficient global transport networks make it practical to bring food before it spoils from distant places where labour costs are lower. And the penetration of mega-markets in nations from China to Mexico with supply and distribution chains that gird the globe—like Wal-Mart, Carrefour and Tesco—has accelerated the trend.     But the movable feast comes at a cost: pollution—especially carbon dioxide, the main global warming gas—from transporting the food.     Under longstanding trade agreements, fuel for international freight carried by sea and air is not taxed. Now, many economists, environmental advocates and politicians say it is time to make shippers and shoppers pay for the pollution, through taxes or other measures.     “We’re shifting goods around the world in a way that looks really bizarre,” said Paul Watkiss, an Oxford University economist who wrote a recent European Union report on food imports. He noted that Britain, for example, imports—and exports—15,000 tons of waffles a year, and similarly exchanges 20 tons of bottled water with Australia. More important, Watkiss said, “we are not paying the environmental cost of all that travel.”     Europe is poised to change that. This year the European Commission in Brussels announced that all freight-carrying flights into and out of the European Union would be included in the trading bloc’s emissions-trading program by 2012, meaning permits will have to be purchased for the pollution they generate. The commission is negotiating with the global shipping organization, the International Maritime Organization, over various alternatives to reduce greenhouse gases. If there is no solution by year’s end, sea freight will also be included in Europe’s emissionstrading program, said Barbara Helferrich, a spokeswoman for the European Commission’s Environment Directorate.     The EU, the world’s leading food importer, has increased imports 20% in the last five years. The value of fresh fruit and vegetables imported by the US, in second place, nearly doubled from 2000 to 2006.     Under a little-known international treaty called the Convention on International Civil Aviation, signed in Chicago in 1944 to help the fledgling airline industry, fuel for international travel and transport of goods, including food, is exempt from taxes, unlike trucks, cars and buses. There is also no tax on fuel used by ocean freighters. Proponents say ending these breaks could help ensure that producers and consumers pay the environmental cost of increasingly well-travelled food.     The food and transport industries say the issue is more complicated. The debate has put some companies on the defensive, including Tesco, Britain’s largest supermarket chain, known as a vocal promoter of green initiatives.     Some of those companies say that they are working to limit greenhouse gases produced by their businesses but that the question is how to do it. They oppose regulation and new taxes and, partly in an effort to head them off, are advocating consumer education instead. Tesco, for instance, is introducing a labelling system that will let consumers assess a product’s carbon footprint. Some foods that travel long distances may actually have an environmental advantage over local products, like flowers grown in the tropics instead of in energyhungry European greenhouses. “This may be as radical for environmental consuming as putting a calorie count on the side of packages to help people who want to lose weight,” a spokesman for Tesco, Trevor Datson, said.     Better transportation networks have sharply reduced the time required to ship food abroad. For instance, improved roads in Africa have helped cut the time it takes for goods to go from farms on that continent to stores in Europe to four days, compared with 10 days not too many years ago.     And with far cheaper labour costs in African nations, Morocco and Egypt have displaced Spain in just a few seasons as important suppliers of tomatoes and salad greens to central Europe.     The economics are compelling. For example, Norwegian cod costs a manufacturer $1.36 a pound to process in Europe, but only 23 cents a pound in Asia.     The ability to transport food cheaply has given rise to new and booming businesses. “In the past few years there have been new plantations all over the centre of Italy,” said Antonio Baglioni, export manager of Apofruit, one of Italy’s largest kiwi exporters. Kiwis from Sanifrutta, another Italian exporter, travel by sea in refrigerated containers: 18 days to the US, 28 to South Africa and more than a month to reach New Zealand.     Some studies have calculated that as little as 3% of emissions from the food sector are caused by transportation. But Watkiss, the Oxford economist, said the percentage was growing rapidly. Moreover, imported foods generate more emissions than generally acknowledged because they require layers of packaging and, in the case of perishable food, refrigeration.     Britain, with its short growing season and powerful supermarket chains, imports 95% of its fruit and more than half of its vegetables. Food accounts for 25% of truck shipments in Britain, according to the British environmental agency, DEFRA.     Datson of Tesco acknowledged that there were environmental consequences to the increased distances food travels, but he said his company was merely responding to consumer appetites. “The offer and range has been growing because our customers want things like snap peas year round,” Datson said. Global supermarket chains like Tesco and Carrefour, spreading throughout Eastern Europe and Asia, cater to a market for convenience foods, like washed lettuce and cut vegetables. They also help expand the reach of global brands. Pringles potato chips, for example, are now sold in more than 180 countries, though they are manufactured in only a handful of places.     Proponents of taxing transportation fuel say it would end such distortions by changing the economic calculus. “Food is travelling because transport has become so cheap in a world of globalization,” said Frederic Hauge, head of Norway’s environmental group Bellona. “If it was just a matter of processing fish cheaper in China, I’d be happy with it travelling there. The problem is pollution.”     The EU has led the world in proposals to incorporate environmental costs into the price consumers pay for food. Switzerland, which does not belong to the EU, already taxes trucks that cross its borders. In addition to bringing airlines under its emission-trading program, Brussels is also considering a freight charge specifically tied to the environmental toll from food shipping to shift the current calculus that “transporting freight is cheaper than producing goods locally,” the commission said.     The problem is measuring the emissions. The fact that food travels farther does not necessarily mean more energy is used. Some studies have shown that shipping fresh apples, onions and lamb from New Zealand might produce lower emissions than producing the goods in Europe, where—for example—storing apples for months would require refrigeration.     But those studies were done in New Zealand, and the food travel debate is inevitably intertwined with economic interests.     Last month, Tony Burke, the Australian minister for agriculture, fisheries and forestry, said that carbon footprinting and labelling food miles—the distance food has travelled—was “nothing more than protectionism.”     Shippers have vigorously fought the idea of levying a transportation fuel tax, noting that if some countries repealed those provisions of the Chicago Convention, it would wreak havoc with global trade, creating an uneven patchwork of fuel taxes. It would also give countries that kept the exemption a huge trade advantage. NYT NEWS SERVICE
wine & dine
Vada pav is Thane’s main course Ambarish Mishra I TNN Mumbai: Vada pav is the main course on the Thane Lok Sabha by-election menu. And bhajias too.     Shiv Sena executive president Uddhav Thackeray’s recent comment that his party will name the soon-to-be corporatised vada pav after Chhatrapati Shivaji (‘Shiv vada’) has raised the hackles of the Sharad Pawar-led NCP.     “At this rate, the Sena may soon have Sambhaji bhajias,’’ said NCP heavyweight and deputy chief minister R R Patil last week.     Incidentally, Sambhaji, Shivaji’s son, has been commemorated—not-so-appropriately, though—by the Gen-Next Marathas from western Maharashtra, the NCP’s bastion. The Sambhaji Brigade doesn’t believe in frying bhajias. It believes in burning books (James Laine’s tome on Shivaji) in an attempt to uphold the Mahratta machismo.     Back to vada pav. Uddhav and his estranged cousin, Maharashtra Navnirman Sena (MNS) chief Raj Thackeray share a common passion for the famous Mumbai snack, according to Sena folklore.     As teenaged students, the Thackeray cousins regularly frequented Ravi Vasaikar’s stall at Shivaji Park, often together, after a cricket match at the ground. An old Sena loyalist, Vasaikar, continues to soldier on, at the same site, in the teeth of fierce competition from a nearby swanky coffee shop.     Thane, too, boasts of an impressive vada pav fan club. Naupada has a famous outlet. But, who thought that the mouth-watering meal would set the mood for the Lok Sabha by-election? “Illegal construction, price rise, pollution are some of Thane’s major problems. But, neither the Sena nor the NCP are talking about civic issues,’’ said Vasanti Deshpande, a     Thane voter.     The fact of the matter is that the Sena and the NCP are vying for the Marathi constituency of Thane. And vada pav is a sure-fire way to the voter’s heart. “Arre, years ago, onion had sealed the fate of Indian politicians. Now, we have vada pav. Doesn’t this augur well for Indian democracy?’’ asked a Sena activist.     Much water has flown under the Bandra bridge since Vasaikar set up his stall in the 1970s. Both Uddhav and Raj have over the years graduated to exotic gastronomic experience—Thai food, for instance. Many Marathi ‘netas’, irrespective of their political tag, have added enormously to their waistline.     Many own petrol pumps and pubs, go periodically to their well-appointed weekend homes (or to ‘vilayat’), construct malls and amusement parks.     However, the Marathi vada pav vendor continues to languish on the fringes of Mumbai, eking out a meagre existence.     ambarish.mishra@timesgroup.com 
When you retire, will you stop buying potatoes? For Indians in their 20s and 30s, the accumulation phase—when they earn and save—is of great import for retirement. And insurance products can help Gary Bennett     THIRTY years ago, a kilo of potatoes sold for less than a rupee in Bombay. Since then, not only has the city changed its name to Mumbai, it but nowhere will you find potatoes selling for less than Rs 10 a kilo. The price of onions has risen more than five times; beans sell for ten times what they cost in 1985. Local transport costs have increased more than 1,000%. Electricity costs almost four times what it did just ten years ago. Even water charges have doubled.     Rising salaries help people cope with the increasing cost of living. But what happens when income from regular sources stops, and costs keep rising?     A national survey of more than 63,000 households, equally divided between rural and urban areas, conducted by the National Council for Applied Economic Research (NCAER), found that only 4% of the people could survive on their savings for more than a year if their current income were to dry up. Where have the savings gone?     The recently released report of the survey, How India Earns, Spends and Saves: A Max New York Life-NCAER India Financial Protection Survey, found that about 81% of Indian households save, but as many as 36% keep their savings as cash at home. Over 50% keep their savings in banks, 5% in post office accounts, and 3% in cooperative societies. A large number—58% of labourers and as much as 20% of salary earners—said their first choice for depositing savings would be to keep them at home.     So that;s where Indians’ savings go—into non-remunerative channels.     Thus, when income dries up, the future spells dependency, anxiety and attendant pain. India is becoming increasingly young—more than 40% of its population is below 30. Three decades from now this group will be ready to retire. They will be retiring from jobs that have allowed comfortable lives, regular holidays, eating out, mobile phones and other gadgets, and graduating to lives that may well involve more expenses, with healthy special diets and more expensive modes of transport, with loss of income, not to mention increased health insurance costs.     How will today’s 20-and 30-year-olds cope with this, unless they have planned to substitute their current income with an equivalent or higher income from other sources? This is necessary to avoid dependency, ensure security, and avert anxiety.     Retirement planning is a growing area of financial planning today, as the joint family system disintegrates, and even nuclear families grow more independent and widely dispersed. India does not have a social welfare system, offering state-supported retirement homes and other facilities, leaving senior citizens to fend for themselves. Thus, retirement planning has become an imperative. The Max New York Life-NCAER India Financial Protection Survey pointed out that although 69% of Indian households save for their old age, they deposit their money in low-return instruments. Thus, even though there is a growing awareness of the need for retirement planning, there’s very little awareness of the range of instruments available in the market for such purpose.     For the young Indian population, the accumulation phase—when they earn and save for their retired days—is of great importance and interest. They need to understand the instruments available in the market which enable them to maintain the discipline to invest for the long term. Life Insurance offers such products both in traditional and unit-linked designs. Retirement planning is always a long-term affair, and one should look at such investments from that perspective. The asset management capabilities of life insurance companies are tuned to manage long-term investments and reap better returns over a longer period of time, as compared to other investment instruments, which have a comparatively shorter term perspective. The world over, the basic nature of life insurance companies makes them an ideal investment avenue as far as retirement planning goes, while financial instruments like mutual funds can be considered for short- to medium-term investments. For instance, the unit-linked platform offered by some products gives the customer the flexibility to invest more in equity in the early accumulation phase, to gain from high returns. As retirement age comes closer, one may opt for debt funds. The dynamic allocation facility, in fact, takes care of this fund allocation need as per life stages automatically. Other products that can also be used for retirement planning offer features such as annuities guaranteed for a period ranging from five to 20 years, accident and disability benefits, including riders for “dread diseases” and so on. To keep the investments within the manageable limits to enjoy a carefree old age, the earlier you start planning, the better. In-built flexibility allows customised packages that depend on individual needs...characteristic of the flexibility that retirement demands! So, when potatoes sell for, say, Rs 50 a kilo 30 years from now, you might leave them off your shopping list because the doctor—and not your wallet—said so! Gary Bennett is CEO and Managing Director, Max New York Life Insurance
Peaches, plums, pears, cherries... if the fruit has arrived, the monsoon will too, says Indira Rodericks     For many its the sighting of the pied crusted cuckoo that heralds the monsoon, but for us its the arrival of the seasonal fruits. Peaches, plums, cherries, lychees, apricots, the pyaree and bottle mangoes, fresh dates and pears. True, you get the imported plums and pears throughout the year, but nothing matches the taste of the locally grown produce.     Considering that the fruit has just arrived, the prices are reasonable, meaning affordable. The apricots are usually the first to arrive and won’t be seen in the market for long. The dried variety you get all-year round, but not the fresh fruit. You can either make jam or poach them in a sugar syrup with a bit of cinnamon for added flavour or served fresh as a desert with icecream. Sometimes the fresh fruit can taste a bit tarty and might not find flavour with all, so poaching becomes a good option. But avoid buying the dull greenish variety of apricots that have a woolly flesh, buy the smaller kind, orange-red in colour.     Likewise, pears can also be poached, but usually the fruit sold is sweet to taste. If you are eating it raw, peeling it is a matter of preference, but if you are cooking pears, then it’s a must. Pears tend to discolour fast once peeled, so make sure you put the peeled slices in a bowl of water to which lemon juice has been added. For whole poached pears, use port or red wine with cinnamon, cloves and lemon rind.     Peaches on the other hand should always be bought ripe. Don’t buy the large size fruit, pick medium sized peaches that are but firm to touch minus outer bruises. If the peach has ripened well, it is delicious eaten on its own or in a fruit salad. Usually the fuzzy skin is not eaten and the best way to get rid of it is to pour boiling water over the fruit and leave it for a minute. You can poach them as well, but if you want an added flavour for your poached peaches, add some lemon rind and a small piece of vanilla pod together with the cinnamon. Remember to remove it all before serving.     Unlike many of the other fruit, cherries come in a number of varieties. There’s the usual small (and sometimes sour) Kashmir variety, the locally grown American variety (that’s what the shop owners call it) that is much larger and blood red in colour and the imported cherries that are picture-perfect and almost black in colour. Of course, prices vary accordingly, but we say if you want to eat cherries, the Kashmir variety does just fine. If it’s cooking you want them for, then the American kind does add a nice touch of colour and size to your dish. It’s the same with plums. The locally grown plums are smaller and the colour ranges from light pink to red. The imported plums are larger, almost the size of a peach and blackish-red in colour. As for the taste, well, nothing beats the Indian plum.     Lychees and fresh dates have also made their way into the market. The lychees are sold in bunches of twenty-five pieces of fruit tied together in a bundle while the fresh dates are sold by weight. Although lychees can be poached, they are best eaten raw as a refreshing end to a meal. Simple remove the outer shell and suck the jelly-like flesh off the stones. You can also stone them and add them to fruit salads. Another interesting way (if you have the patience, that is!) is to stuff the stoned fruit with cream cheese mixed with nuts.     Fresh dates are not usually found throughout the year and often they go unnoticed. Some of the shop owners will tell you that the dates have come in from Iran, that we can’t vouch for. But we can tell you that the fresh fruit is incredibly delicious. You can eat them with their skin on or gently pinch the skin at the stem end until the fruit pops out. They have a dull (almost green moss-like in colour) skin, rather insignificant to look that.     And yes, there are the mangoes, the pyarees and the bottle mangoes. By now, the alphonso no longer holds flavour and the other varieties of mangoes take center stage. Eat them raw, chop them finely and mix with onions for a quick salad or make a tangy pickle. Either way, they have their own flavour and taste.     As early as it may be, this is also when many make their fruit based liqueurs for the festive season. The fruit combined with hard liquors such as rum, vodka, brandy or gin should be made now and by the time Christmas arrives, you have your batch of heady, fruity afterdinner liqueurs ready and matured. We say, make them now, when the fruit is fresh and you can choose the best variety. And the weather is nice and dry, minus the moisture that is!     indira.rodericks@timesgroup.com 
Monday Market In Malad! From 8 am to 2 pm Pannalal Ghosh Road at Malad is a crowded and busy open market - INDIRA RODERICKS     It’s called Somvar Bazar, the literal translation would be Monday Market and it has been a regular feature at Malad west for over seventy years. As the name suggests, you will find this street market only on Monday at Pannalal Ghosh Road, a good 15-minute walk from the station. No one can tell you the origin of this market or exactly how old it is. But the narrow stretch is bustling with hawkers and buyers. The hot sun deters no one from visiting and you will find not just Malad residents but even people from distant places making a purchase. Unlike most street markets, you will find everything that you need here. Cooking utensils, spices (both whole and ground), vegetables, fruit, dried fish, footwear, home furnishings, toys, clothes and hair accessories. There are women selling mountains of garlic and sweet white onions, men with packets of pickle piled in stainless steel buckets, spices displayed in tiny white sacks, little boys running around s e l l - ing broomsticks and rainy footwear on display in overturned umbrellas. Since summer is the time when spices are bought in bulk, dried in the sun and stored, you’ll find a lot of hawkers selling the same. Even the powdered spices have quite a few takers and apart fromthe usual chillie, turmeric and coriander they sell blends for marinations and curries. You’ll also find a lot of the white onion bunches (called jurees), buy the medium, large or the baby onion variety, jaggery and dates, dried fish like Bombay ducks and tiny prawns and dried bananas that come in from Vasai. Vegetables are also what you would find in plenty, cucumbers, pumpkin, lady finger, brinjals, ridge gourd, snake gourd, drumstick and the leafy spinach. Much of this comes from the fields of Vasai and Marve, so quality wise it is very good and very, very fresh.     You might not notice that the market is laid out on a road that is lined with residential houses. But rarely do you see the residents during the market hours. They probably stay put indoors and step out only when the commotion on     their quiet street ends.     Until it begins again     next Monday... HOT BUYS! What we were fascinated by were the coloured monsoon slippers priced at Rs. 30 a pair. Choose from almost eight colours that the hawkers have on display. Right: Spices heaped in sacks were also a common sight. The aroma was rather overpowering and you can’t resist picking up some of it and taking a whiff HOT Find! The white onions are a must buy. This is the season to stock up for the year and people buy dozens to last a good twelve months. Choose from the baby onions, regular and large size. Prices start from Rs. 40 a pair. And yes, you can bargain. The more you buy the better deal you get. HOT 5! • Go early, before noon.You don’t just get the best buys but you avoid the heat as well. • Bargain, bargain, bargain... and we mean on everything. • Mind your wallet and your mobile.The stretch is narrow and crowded. • Spice, both whole and ground, dried fish and vegetables are the most popular buys. • If you have trouble finding the place, simply ask for directions.
LIFE HAS JUST BECOME DEARER Brace Yourself For A Steep Rise In Prices Of Foodstuff; Personal Transport And Eating Out, Too, Will Burn A Hole In Your Pocket Vijay Singh & Bella Jaisinghani | TNN Navi Mumbai/Mumbai: The hike in petrol and diesel rates is going to have a direct effect on the wholesale and retail prices of food items.     Vegetable, fruit and grain merchants at the APMC wholesale market in Vashi — which supplies foodstuff to Mumbai and its neighbourhood — estimate that food prices are going to rise by 5 per cent to 10 per cent, depending on the rate fixed by the transporters’ association.     And the association they referred to, the Bombay Goods and Transporters’ Association (BGTA), estimated that the fuel price hike — combined with the spiralling prices of tyres and spare parts — would increase transportation cost by 20 per cent. Truck owners were not in a position to even recover their operational costs, leave alone absorbing another round of hike, the association said. This increase would have a direct effect on the transport industry and push up cost of goods and services, BGTA officials said.     The price would stay stable for a short while because of a surfeit of supply. “There is surplus supply of potatos from Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh and its price is stable. But onion prices could rise sooner,’’ APMC onion merchant Manikchand Parakh said. Onion rates recently rose because of the early onset of rains in Maharashtra and the fuel price hike would lift wholesale rates further, he explained.     Officials agreed. “All products come come by trucks or tempos, so it is obvious that wholesale prices will rise. The retail rates will be even greater by the time the items reach retail stores in Mumbai, Thane and Navi Mumbai,’’ an APMC state government official said.     Most essential items like potatoes, wheat, mangoes and rice come from places like Ratnagiri in Maharashtra and UP, Gujarat, Andhra Pradesh. The longer the transporting distance, more the cost.     Retail markets echoed wholesalers’ sentiments. Mahatma Jyotiba Phule Market Association president Arjun Dhole could not surmise the impact of the hike until it took shape but he was sure of the final outcome. “Retailers will be forced to pass on the burden of rising transportation costs to the consumer,’’ Dhole said.     Corporate retail chains are adopting a wait-and-watch approach. Reliance, which manages Reliance Fresh, and Pantaloons, which runs Big Bazaar and Food Bazaar, declined comment. But big retailers, having varied business interests, are able to see the issue of fuel hike with a wider perspective. “What could the government have done in a scenario where the price of one barrel of oil has risen from US $ 75 to US $ 135?’’ a senior executive asked. THE OLD ORDER These are the wholesale rates at APMC right now Potatoes: Rs 4-Rs 10 per kg Onions: Rs 3-Rs 5.50 per kg Garlic: Rs 15-Rs 25 per kg Ladies’ Finger: Rs 20-22 per kg Cauliflower: Rs 4-Rs 6 per kg Cabbage: Rs 4-Rs 6 per kg Tomatoes: Rs 5-Rs 6 or Rs 9-Rs 10 per kg (2 varieties) Peas: Rs 38-Rs 40 per kg Green Chillies: Rs 18-Rs 20 or Rs 28-Rs 30 per kg Bitter Gourd: Rs 11-Rs 13 per kg Capsicum: Rs 16-Rs 24 per kg Beans: Rs 14-Rs 240 per kg Mango (Ratnagiri): Rs 300-Rs 500 per 4 dozen Watermelon: Rs 4-Rs 8 per kg Apple: Rs 60-Rs 80 per kg Basmati Rice: Rs 75-Rs 90 per kg HMT Rice: Rs 14-Rs 15 per kg Chana: Rs 24 per kg Masur Dal: Rs 43 per kg Sugar: Rs 14.55-Rs 15.70 per kg
Quick Gun Murugan At Vile Parle East! Catering to traditional Maharashtrian and Gujarati households, this is no fancy bazaar - INDIRA RODERICKS     Vile Parle East may not be accessible to all, but one thing we can tell you about the market is that it is absolutely first-rate. The vegetables and fruits are fresh, you get ready-made school uniforms and Garden sarees, garden brooms and Bata shoes, marble temples and earthenware matkas, stainless steel cookware and fancy buttons. In short, it has everything and with the exception of a few stores who have undergone a swanky change, much of it is still old-world charm. There are three stores in particular. Vijay Stores still caters to all your grocery and confectionery needs, but now is more of a fancy mini supermarket, Apsara the one-stop shop for readymade school uniforms and all the other school paraphernalia, has also undergone a transformation with its fancy exterior and lastly there was Murugan that sold spices and condiments, from fiery hot chillies to the tiny red baby onions, catering specially to the small South Indian community residing in the area. But sadly all that has gone now and although the name has been retained, Murugan is now a cloth store. But yes, there’s one feature that no longer exits. There used to be atleast three reading (lending) libraries that had quite an impressive collection of Hardy Boys and Nancy Drew. Sadly not any more. In place you will find mobile stores that offer cheap and easy SIM cards. But what you will find looming large in the market is Gohil Brothers, the faithful pharmacy, Bata Shoes with his collection of monsoon footwear already on display, the endless number of saree shops that sell sequinned ghagra-cholis, Sajani the faithful Garden saree and dress material outlet, Safari for all your luggage and bag needs, the kitchenware outlets that sell rolling pins, mortars and pestles, the shops that repair gas stoves and umbrellas (yes, they even change the covering for you!) and stores that sell a range of cleaning material for your home, swabs, dusters, brushes, brooms, disinfectants and liquid detergent. The prices of the vegetables (not so much the fruit) are more wholesale than retail. In fact during the afternoon when the men are just laying out the fresh veggies you can spot a vendor or two from the market in the west buying stock. You can’t miss them with their big bags filled with fresh produce hurriedly crossing the railway bridge. Shopping done, then it’s time to eat. Ramkrishna Refreshments, Shiv Sagar, Crunchy     Munchy are all popular eateries, the food is varied and clean and service is quick. Like all markets, this one too is crowded, though not too much. In that sense, there is space for you to walk around or rather browse. But this is one place you won’t be happy just browsing...     To Market... On the left are the vegetable vendors while above and below are some of old establishments of the area. Thankfully, still much of the old world charm still exists and walking around the market is always a pleasurable experience...
Get Used To It Government had no option but to hike price of fuel Bhaskar Dutta Warwick: After a prolonged period of indecision, the UPA government has finally raised prices of petroleum products. This decision comes at a time when the rate of inflation is already running at around 8 per cent. Of course, the rise in petroleum prices will further increase the inflationary pressures in the economy.     Popular wisdom has it that the rise in onion prices was responsible for the fall of one government in the past. So, with elections not very far away, it is not surprising that the government dithered for such a long time before finally biting the bullet. It must have realised that the decision to raise prices would be exploited by its political opponents. Clearly, it must have felt that it had run out of options.     It is not difficult to see why the government was forced to come to this unpalatable conclusion. Crude oil prices in international markets have more than doubled during the course of the last year, and are currently at $128 per barrel. There is no consensus on the future trend in crude prices, except that everyone agrees that prices will never come close to the levels witnessed a year ago. Some ‘experts’ believe that the international oil market is being illegally rigged, and that prices will come down to $90 a barrel some time next year. The flip side of the coin is that an equally large number of experts predict further increases, with one estimate being a mind-boggling $200 a barrel!     So, there is absolutely no reason to believe that we are currently in a temporary regime of an “oil shock”, which will soon pass away. Perhaps that is why there has been a sharp increase in retail prices of petroleum products in practically every oil-importing country. For instance, motorists in England paid 90 pence a litre less than a year ago. The price last week was around £1.20 — an increase of over 30 per cent. Several other countries have witnessed even sharper increases in prices.     Why should this come as a surprise to anyone? If a country has to import oil, then it has to pay the prevailing international price. There is no scope for bargaining! And then the country as a whole has to bear the brunt of higher prices. In most countries, retail prices are not controlled and so the full increase in prices is passed on to the final customer. In countries like India where retail prices are controlled, the final users typically pay less than the full increase in the cost of oil imports. So, those who do not use petroleum products — or use less of them — end up subsidising those who use these products more intensively. There is no way of escaping this unpleasant fact.     In a blatant and naked show of political opportunism, all the opposition parties have taken the government to task for its decision to raise petroleum prices. The BJP has called it an act of “economic terrorism”, while the Left parties have gone one step further and taken their agitation to the streets with bandhs and agitations.     The reaction of the Left parties is particularly hypocritical. After all, they claim to represent the poorer sections of society. But, now they are up in arms because the users of petrol and LPG cylinders will enjoy a lower level of subsidies on these products. In other words, the poorer sections who do not own cars and cannot afford two meals a day and hence do not buy LPG cylinders will now bear a smaller share of the burden. This is neither stupidity nor shortsightedness on the part of the Left parties. An increase in prices is an overt action, observed and felt by everyone, and particularly by those who actually have to pay the higher prices. So, a public show of anger against the increase in prices will certainly earn the Left some extra votes from the urban middle class. On the other hand, the poor pay for the petroleum subsidies in indirect and hidden ways. For instance, the losses suffered by the public sector oil companies are ultimately borne by the exchequer. So, every rupee of loss incurred by the oil companies translates into a rupee less of government expenditure on say rural health care or elementary schools. Reductions of excise or customs duty on oil imports — a favourite suggestion of the Left — also mean lower revenues with the government, and hence lower public expenditures. What is crucial here is that this connection is not immediately apparent. And so the poor will not take the Left to task for making them pay for the petroleum subsidies. There have also been suggestions of a “windfall” tax on companies in order to subsidise petroleum prices. At first sight, this seems an attractive suggestion. After all, companies are owned by the richer section, and so why should we care if some of the profits are siphoned off in the form of higher taxes? But, if corporate taxes can be increased without adverse consequences in other forms, this should be done anyway to increase social sector expenditure! Finally, there is an additional justification for the price hike. The higher the price of say LPG cylinders, the greater will be the inclination to reduce its usage. In other words, the increase in prices will typically reduce overall consumption of petroleum products, thereby lowering the overall oil import bill. The writer is professor of economics at Warwick University.
Vegetables will continue to cost a bomb Fresh Stocks In August Will Not Trigger Major Dip In Retail Rates Sandhya Nair I TNN Mumbai: Your favourite vegetable will not come cheap in the near future. Though the arrival of fresh stock in August will bring down prices in the wholesale market, it may not lead to a significant drop in retail rates at the local markets.     A prime reason for prices remaining high in Mumbai is the shortage of vendors. “With the BMC cracking down on roadside hawkers, wholesalers cannot find vendors to sell vegetables in the city,’’ said Vijay Kawle, deputy secretary of the vegetable market at APMC, Navi Mumbai.     A good start to the monsoon is a welcome sign for farmers, but fresh crops will be ready only by August, say APMC officials. A severe water scarcity in several parts of interior Maharashtra has hampered cultivation this summer.     On Friday, 430 trucks and tempos of vegetables and 221 trucks of fruits arrived at the wholesale market, but almost all of them were priced double of what they were in earlier weeks (see box).     “Vegetable prices increased in April and May as production was hit by a water scarcity in interior Maharashtra. Also, crops tend to get spoilt in the first rains,’’ said Kawle.     Officials pointed out that after February, farmers in belts like Pune and Nashik, from where a large quantity of vegetables comes to the city, were able to grow little crop as water levels went down.     The positive start to the monsoon will ensure a good crop, but most of it will be ready only by August, the officials said.     On Friday, ginger sold at Rs 460 per 10 kg in the wholesale market; a month ago, it was Rs 200 per 10 kg. The rocketing wholesale prices will have a cascading effect on the retail rates, said the officials.     Chillies were priced at Rs 350-400 per 10 kg in the wholesale market. A few weeks ago, it was Rs 130-140 per 10 kg.     APMC officials said they had little control over the retail prices of vegetables and fruit. In 1998, when retailers were charging exorbitant rates, the APMC directly sold vegetables and fruits to consumers for 40 days. “We managed to do it 10 years ago but it was a Herculean task,’’ said Kawle. The rise in fuel prices will further increase the rates of all commodities, he added.     Vegetables like bittergourd (Rs 100-120 per 10 kg), which is coming from Alibaug, Asangaon and Jalgaon, has seen a drop in prices since last week, when it was Rs 280 per 10 kg. Drumstick costs Rs 120 per 10 kg in the wholesale market. Till a few days ago, it was Rs 450 per 10 kg. Potatoes and onions are also priced low.     sandhya.nair@timesgroup.com 
PRICE PUZZLE Inflation eats into midday meals Price Rise Hits Veg Supply For Kids In K’taka Rishikesh Bahadur Desai | TNN Bangalore: These little children don’t know what inflation is all about. But they may feel its impact soon in their midday meals. If the state government does not do anything about it, children will be eating less vegetables than they ought to.     Officials said the problem is so huge that vegetable supply has already been affected in nine north Karnataka districts. Vegetables are either not being supplied or the quantum has been cut down, sources in charge of the scheme said.     Vegetable supply is the responsibility of school development and management committees (SDMCs). “The government gives money to SDMCs three months in advance. They are supposed to buy them in weekly village markets or from the cheapest supplier. But since the prices have gone up, the SDMCs are finding it hard to supply vegetables regularly. We need to give vegetables to students four days a week. But this has come down to one or two days a week in some cases. Some SDMCs have redefined the term vegetables as only onions or potatoes,’’ sources said.     Education department officials admit the fund crunch. “It is common knowledge that prices of commodities have gone up. It is a problem that is affecting every department. In the same way, midday meal is affected. We have sought an increase and are awaiting a re-FOOD FOR THOUGHT The midday meal scheme caters to nearly 71 lakh children in K’taka The state now spends Rs 386 crore for the scheme Nearly Rs 2.32 is spent on each child each day. Of this, the Centre provides rice and Rs 1.60 per child as cooking cost. Procuring pulses, oil and salt is the state’s responsibility In the present scheme, schools are facing a deficit of Rs 35 lakh per day. The state needs another Rs 120 crore if they continue with the same ingredients ply,’’ Venkateshaiah, joint director, midday meal scheme, said.     The state now spends nearly Rs 386 crore on providing rice, dal curry, chapatis and vegetables to over 70 lakh children in government and aided schools. Now that inflation has pushed up the cost of items, the 53,500 schools are finding it difficult to provide the same meal to the children. Nearly Rs 2.32 is spent on each child each day. Of this, the Centre provides rice and Rs 1.60 per child as cooking cost. Procuring pulses, oil and salt is the state’s responsibility.     Inflation has cut into the state’s capacity to buy the same amount of goods with the earlier allocation. As of now, schools are managing with a deficit of Rs 35 lakh per day. The state needs another Rs 120 crore if children are to get the same ingredients in their meal.     Officials said the fund crunch has been hitting them for some months now. “We requested the government to provide us additional funds but nothing has happened. We are carrying on because most of our suppliers provide goods on credit. But this cannot go on for long,’’ they maintained.     Primary and secondary education minister Vishveshwara Hegde Kageri admits price rise has caused a problem. “Officials have brought it to my notice. We will provide additional funds now if needed and increase the allocation in the budget later,’’ he said.
Indira felt inflation heat twice, NDA wept onion tears in 1998 Ashish Sinha | TNN New Delhi: It’s not often that inflation has impacted Indian elections. But on the occasions that price rise has become a central issue, it has had enough force to nearly alter the country’s political course.     In the mid-1960s, India witnessed all-round economic dislocation triggered by food shortages and famines. So much so that the government had to go begging at the doors of the West.     Socialist stalwart Ram Manohar Lohia then gave a call for ‘‘Daam Bandho’’ (check prices) and the 1967 elections saw non-Congress parties sweeping the polls in seven states, at a time when there was hardly any credible alternative to the Congress.     ‘‘Price rise protests became such a wave that the Lok Sabha, for the first time, got a huge and vibrant opposition with Socialists like Minoo Masani leading the assault,’’ recalled former BJP MP, Som Pal.     The mid-70s, when people had been fairly disenchanted by Indira Gandhi’s failed ‘‘Garibi hatao’’ call, also saw the economy facing inflationary pressure. By 1974, a movement against corruption led by Jai Prakash Narayan had started sweeping various parts of the country. ‘‘The international oil price hike — termed the oil shock — had serious domestic ramifications. The first railway strike was successful. The combined impact of the anti-government agitation led to the clamping of Emergency in 1975 and in 1977, the Congress was routed all around,’’ said columnist Swapan Dasgupta. Ironically, Indira Gandhi used the rising price of onions to mount a comeback in 1980.     The next big instance was in 1998, when rising prices of onions and other vegetables had hit the common man hard. In state polls that year, the ruling BJP was decimated in Delhi and Rajasthan and despite its high claims, it could not stop Congress from returning to power for a second term in Madhya Pradesh.     But as journalist Ram Bahadur Rai put it, it is difficult to predict the impact rising prices — or conversely, government’s success in keeping prices in check — has on voter behaviour. ‘‘The NDA government kept inflation under check from 1999 to 2004 but it still lost the elections. The present round of inflation has been triggered by the US through stupendous rise in crude oil prices. If the government, inclined to sign the nuclear deal, is so pro-US, the Americans should help it by slashing crude oil prices,’’ he said.     Som Pal said earlier rounds of inflation resulted more from supply-side constraints when growth was nominal and restrictive practices of the licence-permit raj abetted it. ‘‘But the present round of inflation has new dimensions. The purchasing power of the middle and upward classes has gone up. The economy is witnessing oligopolistic tendencies (when a handful of sellers influence prices). The common man and those working in the unorganized sector have been hit the hardest. It should have a more pronounced political impact,’’ he said. INFLATION & ELECTIONS 1967 | Congress routed in 7 states; party’s majority in LS reduced 1977 | Post-emergency polls throw Congress out of power at the Centre for the first time 1980 | Indira uses onion prices as poll plank to make comeback 1998 | BJP, at power in the Centre, loses Delhi and Rajasthan; Congress comes back for a second term in Madhya Pradesh
GET READY TO SHELL OUT MORE Managing Your Family Budget Is Going To Get Even More Difficult With Inflation Figures At A 13-Year High Viju B | TNN     Inflation, which has reached a 13-year high of 11.05%, is making life difficult for Mumbaikars. TOI visited the Mulays of Dadar on Friday to get an insight into the impact of runaway inflation on middleclass Mumbai and how people are cutting corners to make both ends meet.     These days, when Meenakshi Mulay makes those hot pakodas that her husband Milind and three other members of her family love to gobble in the evening, she saves the leftover oil in the frying pan for future use. “I never used to do this before. But with the price of groundnut oil rising, I am left with no option. Even the cost of onion and potatoes has gone up. Saving the oil gives me the satisfaction of dishing out pakodas every day,’’ she says.     These are some of the small measures that the Mulays, who stay in a one-bedroom apartment at Bendekar Bhavan in Dadar, are taking to counter inflation.     According to Milind, his household expenses have increased by around 25% in the last six months. “Last year, we used to incur about Rs 16,000 as monthly expenses, but now it has increased to around Rs 20,000. We can now neither save nor splurge,’’ he says.     Every household item that the family used to purchase in the last four to five months has become expensive, he says. “Be it milk, cereals, vegetables, cooking gas prices or power bills. Everything seems to be out of reach now, especially if the family has only one working member like ours,’’ he adds. “Till last year, I had to shell out Rs 400 as monthly school fees for my son. Now, I have to spend Rs 600, that’s a straight 50% rise. My parents keep on telling me tales about how good their life was and I agree with them,’’ he says.     “I run a small-time share trading business and so the announcement of the new inflation figures has hit me really hard. The Sensex lost several points on Friday after the new inflation figures were announced and this has only added to the miseries of several people like me who are involved in trading stocks,’’ he complains.     The Mulays now plan to tighten their purse-strings and cut down on monthly expenses accordingly. “Thankfully, we do not eat out regularly. But we may give up that too if the inflation keeps on rising,’’ he says.
When the CHIPS are UP Rucha Biju Chitrodia I TNN     As we binge on unhealthy foods anyway and the weather is suitably muggy, a round of crunchy chips and wafers would not be out of place. Especially since an increasing variety of improvised and surprisingly flavourful chips (other than the popular brands) are popping up at supermarkets, kiranas and niche health stores.     Healthy, baked variants of chips have been visible for a while. Professor Vernon Coelho of Dadar Catering College also speaks of a commercial technique where chips are passed through hot air instead of frying. But we all know that most oil-free chips taste like nothing on earth. There are, however, notable exceptions. Baked potato chips, for one, are light and nice, but then again, this may have a lot to do with the inherent taste of the tuber.     Starchy roots, in fact, have always made for full-bodied chips, and unusual variants of beet, carrots and parsnip taste just as nice. Ayesha Kapadia remembers feasting on some exotic ones in the US, made out of south American roots such as taro and yuca. These multi-coloured chips, she says, “looked beautiful when served at a party’’. While some of these fancy chips are found here too, the hitch is the airport prices (read, they are astronomically overpriced).     The good thing about the import of culinary ideas, though, is that there is something in it for everybody. Those who like meaty flavours could crunch on prawn, fish and chicken chips (which are very popular in China and southeast Asia) at select supermarkets. Says restaurateur Nelson Wang, “These chips are made out of dried shrimps, chicken or fish powder mixed with dried potato flour. After frying, they expand to up to two to three inches in diameter.’’ Not many are aware that these crackers have always been found at Kolkata’s quaint China Town.     Most of us, though, are comfortable experimenting with less common but indigenous chips fried out of roots like suran (yam), the distinctly purple Surti kand, arbi and sweet potato. Chewy meat-replacement soya is also getting there. Then the regular banana (in its many varieties, shapes and flavours like plain, pepper and superhot chilli), jackfruit, tapioca, and karela have always found prime place in traditional cuisine.     In fact, many enthusiasts still fry or bake their own chips. Like Thane’s Renu Kamath, a Mangalorean who marinates slices of karela in turmeric, chilli powder and hing. Before deepfrying them, she sprinkles some rice flour for extra crispness.     Malayalees such as Shiba Thomas fry karela slices with coconut chunks, chillies and button onions (thinly sliced tendli, prepared the same way, makes for lovely chiplets too). But most like Andheri’s Neelima Mamidana, an Andhraite, simply fries plain, sliced karela and then sprinkles on chilli powder and salt (some north Indians may add amchoor). But it is potatoes that continue to dominate the chip mindspace. Vashi’s Jayshree Dhami slices them into thin wafers with a special grater and puts them straight into ice-cold water to remove excess starch. They are towel-dried, deep-fried and treated to a little salt water. Kandivli’s Anita Khandelwal stores ready-to-fry chips by first boiling the slices and then sun-drying them. They last for months and are fried when in the mood. “It is our ‘dopahar’ tea-time snack.’’ Kalina’s Vijayalakshmi Kamath remembers frying rajali banana chips earlier when “you didn’t get everything in shops’’. “Now we don’t have that kind of patience,’’ says the 66-year-old.     The ready-made range is excitingly diverse. At least potato chips, most of us are aware, can be found in flavours such as tomato, mint, coriander, spinach, chaat, chutney, lemon, masala, garlic, and cheese(different types of cheddar) and even chives. Time to tear open another packet.
School expenses rise by 160% in 8 years Abantika Ghosh | TNN New Delhi: While politicians battle it out over inflation and the prices of onions and brinjals, the probable blow for the Indian middle class with its obsession for a “good’’ education are the rising school expenses. According to an Assocham survey, the cost of sending a child to school has risen by 160% in the last 8 years. What’s more, this figure is exclusive of the tuition fees hiked every now and then.     The survey, done under the aegis of the Social Development Foundation of Assocham on ‘Rising school expenses vis-a-vis dilemma of young parents’, says annual school expenses for a single child excluding tuition fees have risen from Rs 25,000 in 2000 to Rs 65,000 in 2008. However, the average annual income of fairly well-off parents has not risen by more than 30% in the same period. The average tuition fees for a private school is Rs 35,000 per year, with Rs 30,000-35,000 more for a host of “overheads’’. An estimated 3 cr children in the country study in private schools, says the survey. The 2,000 working parents were surveyed across nine cities—Delhi, Mumbai, Lucknow,Dehradun,Pune, Bangalore, Kolkata, Chennai and Chandigarh—during April and May this year.One in 10 respondents said the cost of schooling did affect the choice of school. These were parents of young kids who had the option of changing schools. Sixty-five per cent of the respondents said that more than half their salary was spent on their children’s education while 50% conceded schooling was actually a “strain’’ on the family budget. School costs a racket: Parents New Delhi: An Assocham survey has highlighted the soaring cost of sending children to school today. Nearly 60% of the parents surveyed felt education had become a business and that the high tuition fees did not indicate high academic standards. Rather, it indicated a demand-supply function so that school managements could effect erratic fee hikes every year—something parents cannot protest against.     Said a parent with two children studying in a reputed chain of schools, “Every year there is a hike. Every few days there is something or the other for which I have to cough up more money.’’     Transport has emerged as one of the most expensive components of schooling with an average annual cost of Rs 12,000 per child. Packed lunches cost Rs 9,600 per year per child and shoes cost Rs 4,000-5,000. Said Rakhi Sengupta, whose daughter studies in a reputed private school in south Delhi, “It’s all a racket but we can do nothing about it.’’ TNN
Mumbaikars may feel pinch of truckers’ strike after two days TIMES NEWS NETWORK Mumbai: Citizens may have to shell out more for their daily requirement of veggies and milk depending on how many local transporters join the nation-wide truckers’ strike that began on Tuesday midnight. If sources are to be believed, prices are likely to rise if the stir continues beyond two days.     Though local transporters claimed that there was no movement of trucks on Wednesday, wholesale vegetable traders and government officials said there was enough supply to meet the demand for perishables for the next two days.     Truck owners in Mumbai joined the country-wide strike called by the All India Motor Transport Congress (AIMTC) to demand uniform sales tax across the nation, reduced service tax and abolition of highway toll once the cost of constructing the road was recovered.     According to transporters, Mumbai has an in-bound traffic of almost 3,000 trucks daily on an average. As many trucks go out of Mumbai, but these are generally imports landing at the Jawaharlal Nehru Port Trust (JNPT) and the Bombay Port Trust (BPT) or finished products manufactured in the vicinity of the city.”Similarly, exports from these two ports would also get affected because of the strike. But industries do factor in such delays during delivery,’’ said sources.     State transport secretary Ramanath Jha had an emergency meeting in Mantralaya on Wednesday evening to review the situation. The meeting was attended by senior IAS officers and representatives of the city and state police.     After the meeting, Jha told TOI, “Most of the striking transporters are from other states and the effect will be felt only if the strike persists.’’     Meanwhile, the state government has asked its district collectors to ensure that there is no shortage of essentials. “We have empowered the district collectors to requisition goods vehicles and ensure that the supply of vegetables, grains, milk, petro-products and other essentials is not affected,’’ Jha said.     JNPT chairperson S S Husain insisted there was “no effect on the vehicles coming into the port as transporters from Maharashtra were not taking part in the strike’’. BPT officials, too, gave a similar feedback.     However, spokesperson for Bombay Goods Transport Association (BGTA) Mahendra Arya claimed that there was absolutely no movement of trucks on Wednesday. “It’s desperate times, so transporters across the country are sticking to the call. Neither any truck came into Mumbai nor anyone sent any delivery outside the city on Wednesday,” said Arya.     Mohinder Singh Dua, former president of BGTA and owner of Calcutta Express Roadlines, said all the transporters have decided to suffer losses for a few days to save their business in the long run. “We don’t want to inconvenience the common man. But our business margins are dwindling due to the burden of central and local taxes and highway toll,” he said.     Ashok Walunj, a wholesale trader at the Agriculture Produce Market Committee (APMC) market in Vashi, said there was a “regular supply’’ of onion, potatoes and vegetables on Wednesday. “Almost 70 trucks of potatoes came in from Punjab and Uttar Pradesh. The market also got 120 trucks of onions from all over Maharashtra,” he said. However, Walunj was quick to add that this supply is good enough to last for next two days. The market will have a problem in meeting Mumbai’s demand in case fresh supplies discontinue from Friday.     TALKS FAIL Truckers on Wednesday launched a nationwide indefinite strike to protest increased highway toll tax and duty structure on diesel that immediately hit trade and industry, with potential to soon choke food supplies. Two rounds of talks between the government and striking truckers’ representatives failed to achieve any breakthrough, fuelling fears of a spike in prices of edible items in the coming days.
ERRATICA Melon water good for your daughter BACHI KARKARIA And even better for your son, if a TOI dispatch from the US is true. The Democratic race having ended with Hillary’s lemon and Barack’s cherry, our Washington correspondent found fresh juice in a watermelon. The Viagra-like qualities of the humble tarbooj have been exciting lab-land since 2006, but the current version gives a boost to India Rising as well. Our Chidanand Rajghatta reported last Thursday that a group of Texas researchers has pumped up the reputation of the watermelon as a libido enabler, and that the team was led by the institute’s director of Indian origin, Dr Bhimangouda Patil, ‘Bhimu’ to colleagues and friends.     The scientists reiterated that the nourishing phyto-nutrients found in this common fruit react with the human system to improve its performance and fight problems raging from osteoarthritis to erectile dysfunction. Hallelujah! Since hundreds can be grown in every dry river bed, the lowly watermelon could not only save face, it could also save rhinos, tigers and all the other animals who have been savagely poached only to salvage the scrambled sex life of human males.     Less earthshakingly, this finding could also give an all-new meaning to the ‘Watermelon Smoothie’, which was simply an item on upmarket menus before it was marketed as an upper for men. The description could now be applied to the erstwhile sexual slouch who has turned into a bedroom charmer simply by quaffing an eight-ounce glass of this elixir. Picture the recharged fellow biting into his beloved’s soft flesh, spitting out the seeds, and activating body chemistry by whispering such sweet-nothings as ‘My lycopene, my betacarotene, how i adore your citrulline.’ As ‘Bhimu’ told ‘Chidu’, these are the magic bullets which can pump life into everything, from sagging skin to flagging desire.     As with almost everything, there is both bad news and good news in watermelons becoming life-members of the Big Boys Club. The bad news is that they may be bigger, but they are not better; scientists concede that they are not organ specific like Viagra is. The good news is that they don’t cost an arm and a leg, nor will they give you a headache or a heart attack, two of the side-effects of the little, blue, diamondshaped pill.     We have only just put behind us the sweltering summer during which this cheap fruit so generously provides relief. Now, since it can be counted upon to heat things up and not just cool you down, presumably it will no longer be dumped like a scraped-out shell collecting flies on the roadside while rain-foods sweep in to rule the roast.     But i have a problem. Like potatoes, onions and masoor dal, watermelons too were hit by the price rise. Now this new form of inflation could push this poor man’s fruit into the truly expensive league of other aphrodizziacs such as asparagus and oysters. Could this be a conspiracy hatched by an America whose president had himself stated that he could not stomach the improved eating habits of India and China?     And guess what? Even as unlikely a target as the Mumbai Traffic Police could also be affected. The Texas researchers say that the sexual potency of the melon lies in its rind, not in the fleshy inside that is traditionally slurped up. So, our cops would have to revise their recent attempt at humour. Their electronic billboard read: ‘Stop for Red and Go for Green — except when eating watermelon.’ Now we must do the opposite, or we’ll be in a jam. Alec Smart said: ‘‘What’s the new marching order? ‘Left, Wrong, Left!’.’’
wine & dine
MONSOON AT HOME Are the monsoons cutting down your activities by half? Here’s what you can do to quell rain induced boredom. BY SUCHETA KANJILAL     We know you you want to break in those gorgeous new suede pumps you bought at half price at the monsoon sales but with the roads all awry, you’ve had no choice but to play homebody. We tell you what to do at home to keep you happily occupied. Movie Mania Celebrate the visit of the rain gods with a heady dose of world cinema. Call up your DVD rental store and choose from an array of Korean, French and Japanese films. If subtitles are not your idea of fun, why not invite your favourite neighbourhood tots for a Disney marathon? Break out the popcorn and cheer loudly as Cinderella finds her Prince Charming. R pick: For world cinema enthusiasts, we say you go for the Korean film Empress Chung. Yogic Bliss Don’t let the monsoon get in the way of your fitness routine! Instead, bring out the yoga mat, switch on your favourite music and work your way through breathing, stretching and bending exercises. You can wear your favourite tank top during the routine without the fear of the omnipresent gym lecher. R pick: Try the Surya Namaskar if you want a complete body workout. Cook Out Surprise your boyfriend with a home-cooked meal or give your mom a break and a glass of wine! Creamy soups and tantalising desserts will liven up your day. The more adventurous ones can look at making an elaborate five course meal for a loved one, complete with an elegantly set table, dim lighting and soft jazz. R pick: Try our recipe for French Onion Soup. Fry onions in butter till they’re soft and golden brown. Sprinkle white flour, add water, salt and pepper and cover till the soup thickens. Garnish with croutons and freshly grated parmesan cheese. Board Already? Nothing beats monsoon blues like a good, old fashioned board game. The intellectuals can bond over Scrabble while the mystery lovers can seek out Ms. X in Scotland Yard. If your sweetie thinks he’s good with the moolah, prove him wrong by defeating him at Monopoly! Sit cross legged on the floor, pull out the pencils and scorecards and play to win! R pick: The Game of Life will take you through careers, marriage, kids and retirement all in the span of a few hours! Choose an automobile in your favourite colour, spin the wheel and zoom through the kind of life you’ve always dreamt of having!
HOT BITES It’s Pasty, Not Patties! Minced meat in a pastry crust and baked... who can resist them? — INDIRA RODERICKS     To begin with what we call patties should actually be referred to as pasty, literally meaning ‘made of paste’ and pronounced paste-ee.The original pasty contained deer meat, seasoned and enclosed in a pastry crust, baked without a dish. But here we commonly refer to these minced meat pastry puffs as patties, and although you’ll find them in corner bakeries, you’ll be surprised how varied they are in taste. The minced meat mutton patties are usually strongly flavoured with hints of garlic, ginger, chillie and finely chopped onion but what makes the difference is the pastry and the amount of minced meat used...
HOT BITES Sandwiched! A chicken filling between two slices of bread... and many ways to do it — INDIRA RODERICKS     It would be hard to find someone who doesn’t like sandwiches. We have our bread and filling preferences but a sandwich is a welcome snack. From the road-side vegetable sandwich to the substantial mayonnaise chicken sandwich, this is one snack that will never lose its shine. Here are five places that are worth checking out...
Potato prices fall, onions get dearer Vijay Singh I TNN Navi Mumbai: While wholesale potato prices have come down sharply this week thanks to a good supply of the crop, onion rates have increased by 20-25% due to a poor produce.     The prices of potatoes have decreased from Rs 60-70 per 10 kg—at the APMC wholesale market in Vashi—to Rs 40-55 per 10 kg thanks to better supplies from UP, Gujarat, MP and parts of Maharashtra as well as clearance of old stocks from cold storages.     As there has been an increase in the production of potatoes in parts of Punjab, the prices are expected to fall further in the next 10 days to Rs 30-35 per 10 kg.     However, onion prices, which have already risen 20-25%, are expected to rise further by next week due to crop failure caused by the erratic monsoon. “A fortnight ago, around 150 trucks of onions were reaching APMC daily. But now, barely 80 trucks make it to the market,” a trader said.     The current wholesale prices of onions are Rs 120-130 per 10 kg, as against Rs 80-90 earlier. Onions arrive from places like Pune, Malegaon and Nashik. The new crop was expected to arrive in the first week of November, but due to an erratic monsoon, the supply of onions took a hit and triggered a price rise.
Most veggies get cheaper Sandhya Nair & Vijay Singh | TNN Mumbai/Navi Mumbai: It’s time to make a quick visit to the market and stock up on vegetables; prices of some veggies have dropped by a few rupees in the retail markets .     APMC officials in Vashi also believe that the drop in fuel prices should further bring down the prices of greens.     Prices of vegetables have been heading north over the last few months but, of late, there has been a discernible drop. Tomatoes, for example, were selling for Rs 15-18 a kg over the weekend; two weeks ago, a kg would have cost Rs 30.     Shankar Pingle, director of the APMC vegetable market, said the good news was that the prices were now stable.     This, say Mumbaikars, is a welcome change from the scenario they have grown used to. Trips to markets have been a painful experience, with the local bhajiwala refusing to entertain any bargaining. “Vendors were not willing to budge even an inch; they claimed that they had to buy the stuff at exorbitant rates,’’ Goregaon resident Sushma Raje, who paid Rs 30 for a kg of tomatoes two weeks ago, said. “But, last Saturday, I got a kg for Rs 15,’’ she said.     The wholesale market at Vashi has been seeing trucks of green peas, cauliflower, lady’s finger, tomato, cabbage and gourd arriving in the city. Green leafy vegetables like palak are also coming in from Nashik. Vegetables like methi and coriander leaves, say APMC officials, are also abundant in supply and the prices are not too steep. Prices of onions (Rs 14 a kg) and potatoes (Rs 12 a kg), however, have been on the higher side.     With prices of petrol and diesel coming down, APMC officials expect the changes to reflect in the rates of vegetables; most of them come from across the state and other parts of the country, such as Madhya Pradesh, Jodhpur and Gujarat.     There is, however, some bad news as well; fruits are getting costlier. Despite a good crop of oranges, the retail market sells it for Rs 20 for four or five. Quality apples are going for nothing less than Rs 125 a kg though smaller varieties are being sold for Rs 70-80 a kg.     sandhya.nair@timesgroup.com     vijay.singh3@timesgroup.com 
BEYOND REACH Rising onion prices make buyers weep Devraj Dasgupta | TNN Mumbai: Despite a bumper kharif crop in Maharashtra, onion prices continue to bring tears to the eyes of consumers in the city. The vegetable has been selling at an all-time high of Rs 20 per kg for the last fortnight as supply to the entire country is limited to the yield from Nashik district.     With the supply of onions from Gujarat, Karnataka and Rajasthan yet to hit the market, the rates are expected to stay high for another month, say experts.     Normally, the price of onions hits a high during the festive season of Diwali and Dussehra and comes down to a low by December-end. The trend is explained by the fact that the stock from the summer crop is exhausted in the festive season and a fresh kharif crop hits the market by November end, bringing down the prices.     However, the kharif onions got delayed by two months this year due to the double whammy-late and less rainfall. As a result, the kharif crop has just started arriving in the wholesale markets of Nashik district, the biggest onion producing centre in Maharashtra.     Sangdeo Holkar, vice-president of the National Agriculture Co-operative Marketing Federation (Nafed), said markets in Nashik received a supply of 1.3 lakh tonnes of kharif onion last Friday. “In all, close to 6,500 tractors carrying 20 to 25 tonnes each brought fresh onions into the market. The supply is of good quality,’’ he said. However, Holkar admits that this supply is not enough to rectify the mismatch between demand and supply.     “Unless the supply from other onion-producing states starts coming in, the Nashik produce will be used across the country. Fortunately for consumers, Gujarat’s kharif crop is also ready to hit the market, possibly shifting the focus from Nashik,’’ he said.     Moreover, says Holkar, Maharashtra would also come up with additional onions from the late kharif crop available from mid-February. “Late kharif would provide further relief to consumers,’’ he added.     Nitin Jain, director of Nashik’s biggest onion market at Lasalgaon, said farmers are really lucky to get this rate in December and January. “Normally, the onion’s wholesale prices touch a peak of Rs 1,400 per quintal (100 kg) during Diwali. By December, it comes down to Rs 400 per quintal, but this year its different because of the delayed rains,’’ he said.     But Jain cautions that farmers are not trying to exploit the late rains to make big bucks. “Its because supply from neighbouring states failed to circulate all over the country. In contrast, Nashik’s onions are in demand all over India and also as exports,’’ he said.     devraj.dasgupta@timesgroup.com 
BEYOND REACH Rising onion prices make buyers weep Devraj Dasgupta | TNN Mumbai: Despite a bumper kharif crop in Maharashtra, onion prices continue to bring tears to the eyes of consumers in the city. The vegetable has been selling at an all-time high of Rs 20 per kg for the last fortnight as supply to the entire country is limited to the yield from Nashik district.     With the supply of onions from Gujarat, Karnataka and Rajasthan yet to hit the market, the rates are expected to stay high for another month, say experts.     Normally, the price of onions hits a high during the festive season of Diwali and Dussehra and comes down to a low by December-end. The trend is explained by the fact that the stock from the summer crop is exhausted in the festive season and a fresh kharif crop hits the market by November end, bringing down the prices.     However, the kharif onions got delayed by two months this year due to the double whammy-late and less rainfall. As a result, the kharif crop has just started arriving in the wholesale markets of Nashik district, the biggest onion producing centre in Maharashtra.     Sangdeo Holkar, vice-president of the National Agriculture Co-operative Marketing Federation (Nafed), said markets in Nashik received a supply of 1.3 lakh tonnes of kharif onion last Friday. “In all, close to 6,500 tractors carrying 20 to 25 tonnes each brought fresh onions into the market. The supply is of good quality,’’ he said. However, Holkar admits that this supply is not enough to rectify the mismatch between demand and supply.     “Unless the supply from other onion-producing states starts coming in, the Nashik produce will be used across the country. Fortunately for consumers, Gujarat’s kharif crop is also ready to hit the market, possibly shifting the focus from Nashik,’’ he said.     Moreover, says Holkar, Maharashtra would also come up with additional onions from the late kharif crop available from mid-February. “Late kharif would provide further relief to consumers,’’ he added.     Nitin Jain, director of Nashik’s biggest onion market at Lasalgaon, said farmers are really lucky to get this rate in December and January. “Normally, the onion’s wholesale prices touch a peak of Rs 1,400 per quintal (100 kg) during Diwali. By December, it comes down to Rs 400 per quintal, but this year its different because of the delayed rains,’’ he said.     But Jain cautions that farmers are not trying to exploit the late rains to make big bucks. “Its because supply from neighbouring states failed to circulate all over the country. In contrast, Nashik’s onions are in demand all over India and also as exports,’’ he said.     devraj.dasgupta@timesgroup.com 
Truckers go off the roads Roana Maria Costa and Vijay Singh I TNN Mumbai: Transporters went on an indefinite countrywide strike from Sunday midnight to demand a reduction in diesel prices by Rs 10 per litre and in the import duties on tyre prices. But the silver lining is that perishables like milk, vegetables and also medicines were kept out of the ambit of the strike in the city and wholesale prices of food items at the APMC Market in Vashi were normal.     Even more significantly, APMC secretary Sudhir Tungar told TOI that arrivals and departures of trucks as well as tempos at five sections of the wholesale market remained above average as not every lobby had joined the transporters’ strike yet.     “A total of 2,107 trucks and tempos arrived with goods at the APMC Market till 5 pm on Monday and 1,612 vehicles left from here. This is above the average figures of 1,460 arrivals and 1,917 departures of trucks and tempos,’’ said Tungar.     Referring to the five markets of onion-potato, vegetables, fruits, spices and condiments as well as the grain section, Tungar added that business was usually better on Monday because of the weekend gap. “So far, most of the associations linked to APMC have not committed themselves to the strike and those in the spices and grain markets have not said yes or no to the strike. So prices are stable for now,’’ he reasoned. Maharashtra Rajya Truck Tempo Tanker Bus Vahatuk Maha Sangh president Prakash Gauli said: “Vehicles carrying milk, vegetables, fruits and medicines have been exempted from the strike. The state government has called the unions for a meeting on Tuesday.’’     But the Bombay Goods Transport Association, associated with the All-India Motor Transport Congress which called for the strike, said the movement was getting stronger. “More than 90% transporters are off the road. Representatives began holding talks with officials on Sunday where the issues were raised. We don’t know when the strike will end,’’ BGTA spokesperson Mahendra Arya said. Transporters went on a similar strike, which ended after two days, in June. “But our problems were addressed in print and not in spirit. We are not so optimistic of the strike ending soon,’’ he added.     There are 8 lakh vehicles in Maharashtra and 2 lakh which ply in and around the city. “The daily loss for every idle vehicle is around Rs 1,000; so that’s crores of rupees lost in a day. We are fighting the common man’s battle so that prices of commodities can go down after diesel prices are rolled back,’’ Arya said.
Truckers go off the roads Roana Maria Costa and Vijay Singh I TNN Mumbai: Transporters went on an indefinite countrywide strike from Sunday midnight to demand a reduction in diesel prices by Rs 10 per litre and in the import duties on tyre prices. But the silver lining is that perishables like milk, vegetables and also medicines were kept out of the ambit of the strike in the city and wholesale prices of food items at the APMC Market in Vashi were normal.     Even more significantly, APMC secretary Sudhir Tungar told TOI that arrivals and departures of trucks as well as tempos at five sections of the wholesale market remained above average as not every lobby had joined the transporters’ strike yet.     “A total of 2,107 trucks and tempos arrived with goods at the APMC Market till 5 pm on Monday and 1,612 vehicles left from here. This is above the average figures of 1,460 arrivals and 1,917 departures of trucks and tempos,’’ said Tungar.     Referring to the five markets of onion-potato, vegetables, fruits, spices and condiments as well as the grain section, Tungar added that business was usually better on Monday because of the weekend gap. “So far, most of the associations linked to APMC have not committed themselves to the strike and those in the spices and grain markets have not said yes or no to the strike. So prices are stable for now,’’ he reasoned. Maharashtra Rajya Truck Tempo Tanker Bus Vahatuk Maha Sangh president Prakash Gauli said: “Vehicles carrying milk, vegetables, fruits and medicines have been exempted from the strike. The state government has called the unions for a meeting on Tuesday.’’     But the Bombay Goods Transport Association, associated with the All-India Motor Transport Congress which called for the strike, said the movement was getting stronger. “More than 90% transporters are off the road. Representatives began holding talks with officials on Sunday where the issues were raised. We don’t know when the strike will end,’’ BGTA spokesperson Mahendra Arya said. Transporters went on a similar strike, which ended after two days, in June. “But our problems were addressed in print and not in spirit. We are not so optimistic of the strike ending soon,’’ he added.     There are 8 lakh vehicles in Maharashtra and 2 lakh which ply in and around the city. “The daily loss for every idle vehicle is around Rs 1,000; so that’s crores of rupees lost in a day. We are fighting the common man’s battle so that prices of commodities can go down after diesel prices are rolled back,’’ Arya said.
CRYING NEED FOR NORMAL SERVICES APMC markets set to roll again Situation To Normalise Today: Traders Vijay Singh | TNN Navi Mumbai: Merchants at the APMC markets heaved a sigh of relief on Sunday with transporters’ calling off their strike. They said the situation would start returning to normal from Monday.     On Sunday, the five wholesale food markets at APMC, Vashi, remained closed for business as usual. On Saturday, two of the five markets—grains and spices—remained shut while those for vegetables, fruits and onion & potatoes functioned normally.     Prices of grains and spices were expected to rise in the next three days as stocks ran out in the retail markets due to the local transporters’ strike.     While the markets for fruits, vegetables and onions-potatoes remained open, the effects of the transporters’ strike were expected to be felt there were as well as the arrival of trucks and tempos had been affected.     The one-day token strike by 20,000-odd Mathadi workers in all five APMC markets would have added to the problems. “The Mathadi workers, who are involved in loading and unloading work at APMC, had said they would decide on Monday when to observe the one-day strike in order to express solidarity with the transporters,’’ said Narendra Patil, state president of the Mathadi workers’ association. Nilesh Veera, joint secretary of the Grain Rice & Oilseeds Merchants’ Association’ said as the grains and spices markets were already closed since Saturday, the shortage of these food items in the retail markets would have been felt in the next two days, leading to a price rise in some regions. With the strike being called off, the traders are relieved as these problems will not arise now. Experts said fruits and vegetables were being sold at higher prices in certain retail sectors though the wholesale rates were normal at the APMC market. D D Kamble, deputy director of the APMC market, assured that the state government was making concerted efforts to boost operations in the fruits, vegetables and onions-potatoes markets and resume work in the grains and spices sections. “Wholesale rates in the onionspotatoes, fruits and vegetable markets were kept stable throughout last week despite the strike; we are doing our best to ensure that Mumbai and other regions do not run out of stock this week,’’ Kamble said before the strike was called off. While the wholesale prices of potatoes remained in the range of Rs 500 to Rs 1,300 per 100 kg (Rs 5 to Rs 13 per kg), it ranged from Rs 22 to Rs 32 per kg at retail markets in Mumbai and Thane. For tomatoes, the wholesale rates at APMC were Rs 50 to Rs 90 per 10 kg (Rs 5 to Rs 9 per kg); in the retail markets, they were priced between Rs 18 and Rs 24 a kg. On Sunday, traders said the retail prices of commodities that had risen over the last few days would come down now that the truckers’ strike had been called off. vijay.singh3@timesgroup.com 
CRYING NEED FOR NORMAL SERVICES APMC markets set to roll again Situation To Normalise Today: Traders Vijay Singh | TNN Navi Mumbai: Merchants at the APMC markets heaved a sigh of relief on Sunday with transporters’ calling off their strike. They said the situation would start returning to normal from Monday.     On Sunday, the five wholesale food markets at APMC, Vashi, remained closed for business as usual. On Saturday, two of the five markets—grains and spices—remained shut while those for vegetables, fruits and onion & potatoes functioned normally.     Prices of grains and spices were expected to rise in the next three days as stocks ran out in the retail markets due to the local transporters’ strike.     While the markets for fruits, vegetables and onions-potatoes remained open, the effects of the transporters’ strike were expected to be felt there were as well as the arrival of trucks and tempos had been affected.     The one-day token strike by 20,000-odd Mathadi workers in all five APMC markets would have added to the problems. “The Mathadi workers, who are involved in loading and unloading work at APMC, had said they would decide on Monday when to observe the one-day strike in order to express solidarity with the transporters,’’ said Narendra Patil, state president of the Mathadi workers’ association. Nilesh Veera, joint secretary of the Grain Rice & Oilseeds Merchants’ Association’ said as the grains and spices markets were already closed since Saturday, the shortage of these food items in the retail markets would have been felt in the next two days, leading to a price rise in some regions. With the strike being called off, the traders are relieved as these problems will not arise now. Experts said fruits and vegetables were being sold at higher prices in certain retail sectors though the wholesale rates were normal at the APMC market. D D Kamble, deputy director of the APMC market, assured that the state government was making concerted efforts to boost operations in the fruits, vegetables and onions-potatoes markets and resume work in the grains and spices sections. “Wholesale rates in the onionspotatoes, fruits and vegetable markets were kept stable throughout last week despite the strike; we are doing our best to ensure that Mumbai and other regions do not run out of stock this week,’’ Kamble said before the strike was called off. While the wholesale prices of potatoes remained in the range of Rs 500 to Rs 1,300 per 100 kg (Rs 5 to Rs 13 per kg), it ranged from Rs 22 to Rs 32 per kg at retail markets in Mumbai and Thane. For tomatoes, the wholesale rates at APMC were Rs 50 to Rs 90 per 10 kg (Rs 5 to Rs 9 per kg); in the retail markets, they were priced between Rs 18 and Rs 24 a kg. On Sunday, traders said the retail prices of commodities that had risen over the last few days would come down now that the truckers’ strike had been called off. vijay.singh3@timesgroup.com 
IN SEARCH OF THE PERFECT BREAD… Grain drain Ramya Sarma     Eaten as a staple in the west but seen mainly as breakfast fare or snack food (sandwiches, stuffed 'toasties' or badly made 'bread pakora') in this country, bread is starting to be consumed in greater quantities as a replacement for rotis or rice. And, thankfully, standard 'white sliced' is gradually yielding some of its supremacy to more exotic versions, with the number of grains growing with each avatar of the loaf.     Most bread needs a base, which is still either white refined flour or whole wheat flour, the binding that holds the multi-grains together, as it were. As Kainaz Messman of Theobroma (known more for its divine mega-chocolatey brownies) says, the multi-grain bread the store sells (priced at Rs 40 for a flattish oval loaf) contains "80 per cent different grains - nachni, bajra, jowar, ragi, a lot of sesame seeds, onion seeds, oat flour and more -- and 20 per cent white flour, which is needed for the structure. However, even with the refined flour, it is still more nutritious than 100 per cent whole wheat with no white flour added." Adding greater interest is the multigrain cookie, an experience on my must-do list for my next visit to the small and divinely fragrant shop.     Zyros Zend of Yazdani Bakery and Restaurant believes that the consumer needs to have a sense of adventure that the bread he makes will stimulate. "The grains we put into our multi-grain bread are a big secret; I will tell you, but then I will have to kill you! The reason we do not want to tell people is that we want them to get educated in the bread they are eating. They should know that it is genuinely good for the health and good to eat." As a long-term customer, I myself know that it contains watermelon seeds, sunflower seeds, oats, bajra, jowar…at least nine different grains, each of which contributes to the general feeling of virtue when eaten. The Yazdani half-kilo flattened semi-spherical multigrain loaf, its proportions honed through careful trial an error with customer feedback, can hold up to nine different grains, and is now priced at Rs 50, having started at Rs 30 five years ago.     Both bakeries aver that the multi-grain product is their most popular. Messman explains that, "we have always had it, since the time we started the shop - it was just becoming very popular, the whole health wave happened, people became more conscious of the benefits of other grains besides wheat. More people have been moving away from traditional white."     According to Zend, "Everyone was doing brown bread using burnt sugar. Then came whole wheat. We wanted to go one step ahead." The Yazdani loaf has no preservatives. "And we sell the toast, too; it goes with Indian and western food - the crunchiness substitutes for wafers." Zend says with pride that the loaf has also been approved by two hospital dieticians. One slice of it is equal to three or four slices of white bread."     These are not the only two havens of healthy loaves in the city. Start at the top of the price chain and you find the most delicious multi-grain jumbo loaves (about Rs 100 for a half loaf) at the Oberoi Deli, ideal for a hearty heap of salad greens and sharp cheese. At the Indigo Deli near the Gateway of India, a long oval of multi-grain goodness (Rs 65) is punctuated by unexpected air pockets that catch fresh butter or homemade strawberry jam. Wander to Worli, to the charming Banyan Tree, where the strangely oily-on-the-outside multi-grainer (Rs 65) is soft yet with a nice chew, perfect for a cream cheese and smoked salmon sandwich. And there are more - the Bread Shop at Kemps Corner, the bakery section at Hypercity, the baskets at the BBC and, of course, keeping up with the rest of the world, the fairly newly introduced multi-grain slices from a company well known for its packaged soft white bread.     With a choice like that available, virtue joined with health can be so easy to grab!
IN SEARCH OF THE PERFECT BREAD… Grain drain Ramya Sarma     Eaten as a staple in the west but seen mainly as breakfast fare or snack food (sandwiches, stuffed 'toasties' or badly made 'bread pakora') in this country, bread is starting to be consumed in greater quantities as a replacement for rotis or rice. And, thankfully, standard 'white sliced' is gradually yielding some of its supremacy to more exotic versions, with the number of grains growing with each avatar of the loaf.     Most bread needs a base, which is still either white refined flour or whole wheat flour, the binding that holds the multi-grains together, as it were. As Kainaz Messman of Theobroma (known more for its divine mega-chocolatey brownies) says, the multi-grain bread the store sells (priced at Rs 40 for a flattish oval loaf) contains "80 per cent different grains - nachni, bajra, jowar, ragi, a lot of sesame seeds, onion seeds, oat flour and more -- and 20 per cent white flour, which is needed for the structure. However, even with the refined flour, it is still more nutritious than 100 per cent whole wheat with no white flour added." Adding greater interest is the multigrain cookie, an experience on my must-do list for my next visit to the small and divinely fragrant shop.     Zyros Zend of Yazdani Bakery and Restaurant believes that the consumer needs to have a sense of adventure that the bread he makes will stimulate. "The grains we put into our multi-grain bread are a big secret; I will tell you, but then I will have to kill you! The reason we do not want to tell people is that we want them to get educated in the bread they are eating. They should know that it is genuinely good for the health and good to eat." As a long-term customer, I myself know that it contains watermelon seeds, sunflower seeds, oats, bajra, jowar…at least nine different grains, each of which contributes to the general feeling of virtue when eaten. The Yazdani half-kilo flattened semi-spherical multigrain loaf, its proportions honed through careful trial an error with customer feedback, can hold up to nine different grains, and is now priced at Rs 50, having started at Rs 30 five years ago.     Both bakeries aver that the multi-grain product is their most popular. Messman explains that, "we have always had it, since the time we started the shop - it was just becoming very popular, the whole health wave happened, people became more conscious of the benefits of other grains besides wheat. More people have been moving away from traditional white."     According to Zend, "Everyone was doing brown bread using burnt sugar. Then came whole wheat. We wanted to go one step ahead." The Yazdani loaf has no preservatives. "And we sell the toast, too; it goes with Indian and western food - the crunchiness substitutes for wafers." Zend says with pride that the loaf has also been approved by two hospital dieticians. One slice of it is equal to three or four slices of white bread."     These are not the only two havens of healthy loaves in the city. Start at the top of the price chain and you find the most delicious multi-grain jumbo loaves (about Rs 100 for a half loaf) at the Oberoi Deli, ideal for a hearty heap of salad greens and sharp cheese. At the Indigo Deli near the Gateway of India, a long oval of multi-grain goodness (Rs 65) is punctuated by unexpected air pockets that catch fresh butter or homemade strawberry jam. Wander to Worli, to the charming Banyan Tree, where the strangely oily-on-the-outside multi-grainer (Rs 65) is soft yet with a nice chew, perfect for a cream cheese and smoked salmon sandwich. And there are more - the Bread Shop at Kemps Corner, the bakery section at Hypercity, the baskets at the BBC and, of course, keeping up with the rest of the world, the fairly newly introduced multi-grain slices from a company well known for its packaged soft white bread.     With a choice like that available, virtue joined with health can be so easy to grab!
Demand To Remain Steady Inflation dips but no respite on food prices Rupali Mukherjee | TNN New Delhi: It’s a double whammy for consumers. While the slowdown in the economy is hurting them on the salary front, the monthly food bill – the single largest item of expenditure for most middle-class families – is rising by over 15% year-on-year.     Prices of items of daily consumption like dal, rice, sugar, eggs have been increasing over the last few months, even as inflation witnessed a downward spiral since November last year. In fact, prices of staples like atta and items of daily consumption are expected to hold at the present level, and the bad news is that consumers should not expect them to come down, at least for now.     This is when most commodities are becoming cheaper—wheat prices are globally down by 50-60% yearon-year. However, there is very little impact on the retail prices of branded atta.     Analysts say that companies are unlikely to reduce prices of staples as they know that the demand for them is inelastic — whatever be the price, people will continue to buy them at the same level. Against this, in a recession, impulse-led purchases — chocolates — may become cheaper, going forward, says KPMG’s Anand Ramanathan.     According to estimates, an individual spends around 35-40% of his income on food. If the monthly expenses on food are increasing, with meagre or no increase in the salary, he is in a tight spot. The scenario becomes bleak in an uncertain economic environment worsened by increasing job cuts, freeze on increments and a slower hiring by companies.     Looking at average retail prices, over the last month, retail prices of sugar have increased by over 11% with branded sugar available at Rs 30 in the market, while that of dal (arhar) have gone up by nearly 15-17%.     Prices of eggs have increased by 13-15% over the last three months. There is hardly any respite in the case of fruits and vegetables, with their prices steadily rising by 10-12% over the last six months. The weighted average retail price of fruit and vegetables moved in the range of Rs 16.40-18.30 per kg during Sept’08 to Nov’08 and Rs 12.85-14.15 per kg during Dec’08 to Feb’09.     Sunil Bansal, CEO (Fruits & Vegetables), Mother Dairy Fruit & Vegetable says: “The main reason for high prices was damage to the major fruit and vegetable crops like onion, tomato, apples, cucurbits and other seasonal vegetables due to erratic rainfall in June-August last year.”     And non-vegetarians have not been spared either. Prices of chicken and mutton have witnessed an increase of 20-30% over the last few months.
Demand To Remain Steady Inflation dips but no respite on food prices Rupali Mukherjee | TNN New Delhi: It’s a double whammy for consumers. While the slowdown in the economy is hurting them on the salary front, the monthly food bill – the single largest item of expenditure for most middle-class families – is rising by over 15% year-on-year.     Prices of items of daily consumption like dal, rice, sugar, eggs have been increasing over the last few months, even as inflation witnessed a downward spiral since November last year. In fact, prices of staples like atta and items of daily consumption are expected to hold at the present level, and the bad news is that consumers should not expect them to come down, at least for now.     This is when most commodities are becoming cheaper—wheat prices are globally down by 50-60% yearon-year. However, there is very little impact on the retail prices of branded atta.     Analysts say that companies are unlikely to reduce prices of staples as they know that the demand for them is inelastic — whatever be the price, people will continue to buy them at the same level. Against this, in a recession, impulse-led purchases — chocolates — may become cheaper, going forward, says KPMG’s Anand Ramanathan.     According to estimates, an individual spends around 35-40% of his income on food. If the monthly expenses on food are increasing, with meagre or no increase in the salary, he is in a tight spot. The scenario becomes bleak in an uncertain economic environment worsened by increasing job cuts, freeze on increments and a slower hiring by companies.     Looking at average retail prices, over the last month, retail prices of sugar have increased by over 11% with branded sugar available at Rs 30 in the market, while that of dal (arhar) have gone up by nearly 15-17%.     Prices of eggs have increased by 13-15% over the last three months. There is hardly any respite in the case of fruits and vegetables, with their prices steadily rising by 10-12% over the last six months. The weighted average retail price of fruit and vegetables moved in the range of Rs 16.40-18.30 per kg during Sept’08 to Nov’08 and Rs 12.85-14.15 per kg during Dec’08 to Feb’09.     Sunil Bansal, CEO (Fruits & Vegetables), Mother Dairy Fruit & Vegetable says: “The main reason for high prices was damage to the major fruit and vegetable crops like onion, tomato, apples, cucurbits and other seasonal vegetables due to erratic rainfall in June-August last year.”     And non-vegetarians have not been spared either. Prices of chicken and mutton have witnessed an increase of 20-30% over the last few months.
TIMES FOOD GUIDE Fascinating foodies Rashmi Uday Singh     I’m finicky. Every Wednesday, I review only new restaurants in this column. However, I do make exceptions. I hold back the writing of a review when I find that a fledgling new restaurant is transforming rapidly, adding menus and trying to stabilise and hit its stride (Henry Tham and Tasting Room being cases in point). This way, I am able to deliver a review which will be valid over a period of time. Even more, since I eat there over a period of time (no wonder my bank balance keeps dwindling) I am able to make a fairer assessment. I also get many more chances to dine with interesting guests (lunch with the Phillipe DuFrenoy, Karim Mekachura and Sheetal Munshaw) and dinner with the fascinating foodie cousins at Flamboyante which opened over a year ago. Each time the verdict is positive. TARE ZAMEEN PAR     We dine under the stars. My guests are stars in their own right too. Dr Sonali Sachdev (orthodontist turned successful actor) has acted in Taare Zameen Par. We sit in the sprawling courtyard under the tree (please see the photograph and the fairy lights winding around the tree trunk of the Gulmohar tree, ‘Flamboyante’ in English). Berkeley based Priya Haji has been internationally recognised as America’s 10 Most Outstanding Young Leaders (Brick Award) for her amazing philanthropy. I am riveted by her organisation, “The World of Good” which touches the lives of women artisans, globally. While Dr Hemu Sachdev, a prosthodontist and cosmetic dentist keeps lots of people smiling. The ever-smiling, well-travelled Darshana Vasa, young mother of a set of twins loves to cook and feed people. And foodie extraordinaire, Shamit Vasa, the young executive working with India’s largest private sector company enjoys balancing his time around work, family, golf and now yoga. Together, the ‘foodie five’ give me their feedback. FLAMBOYANTE     Over-ambitious restaurants that have omnibus multi-cuisine menus always make me nervous. And the recently introduced Lucknavi menu here would seem to be an unlikely fit with Italian and Oriental. But under the talented Amrish Arora, specialty chefs heading each separate kitchen pull this off with great panache.     Without doubt, the Lucknawi kitchen evokes the most “wah wahs”. The nalli nihari has exactly the silkiness and succulence — considerable, but not reckless — that seduces. Ditto for the kakori kebab and bazaari chicken kebab. Surprisingly, the thin crust pizzas (pepperoni and hot chilli onion) pizza (for veggies) are as good. Close seconds are Thai Beckti fish and the chatpata chicken cascade. The generously-portioned desserts of baked cheese cake and Tiramisu are wellmade. Check out the bakery, the wellstocked wine tasting room, get serenaded by the guitarist who plays every Tuesdays and Sundays.     The kitchen falters in its dim sum (thick skins), Tenderloin onion chilli (smothered with onions) and the lacklustre mezze platter. Service can be slow and confused. Seating in the busy courtyard is recommended (I prefer it to the twin-levelled indoors) especially in the cooler months and at night (seductive lighting, live band from Wednesday–Friday). Sit away from the pedestal fans (they blow your hair away) and be prepared for slow service and a noisy courtyard.     However, most importantly, in this open through the day, moderately priced (meal for 2 at Rs 1,000) eatery, there is a charm…a certain buoyancy…that papers over it’s shortcomings and makes you want to go back. Also, nalli nihari, kakori kebab…Jai ho!     P.S. Unique Sunday brunch for Rs 1,250 with live band. Eat as much from the three menus. Happy hours from 6.30pm – 8.30pm (50 per cent off).     FLAMBOYANTE World Trade Centre, Cuffe Parade, Colaba, 22180433-34, Open noon to midnight Food-3.50 Service-3.25 Décor-3.50
TIMES FOOD GUIDE Fascinating foodies Rashmi Uday Singh     I’m finicky. Every Wednesday, I review only new restaurants in this column. However, I do make exceptions. I hold back the writing of a review when I find that a fledgling new restaurant is transforming rapidly, adding menus and trying to stabilise and hit its stride (Henry Tham and Tasting Room being cases in point). This way, I am able to deliver a review which will be valid over a period of time. Even more, since I eat there over a period of time (no wonder my bank balance keeps dwindling) I am able to make a fairer assessment. I also get many more chances to dine with interesting guests (lunch with the Phillipe DuFrenoy, Karim Mekachura and Sheetal Munshaw) and dinner with the fascinating foodie cousins at Flamboyante which opened over a year ago. Each time the verdict is positive. TARE ZAMEEN PAR     We dine under the stars. My guests are stars in their own right too. Dr Sonali Sachdev (orthodontist turned successful actor) has acted in Taare Zameen Par. We sit in the sprawling courtyard under the tree (please see the photograph and the fairy lights winding around the tree trunk of the Gulmohar tree, ‘Flamboyante’ in English). Berkeley based Priya Haji has been internationally recognised as America’s 10 Most Outstanding Young Leaders (Brick Award) for her amazing philanthropy. I am riveted by her organisation, “The World of Good” which touches the lives of women artisans, globally. While Dr Hemu Sachdev, a prosthodontist and cosmetic dentist keeps lots of people smiling. The ever-smiling, well-travelled Darshana Vasa, young mother of a set of twins loves to cook and feed people. And foodie extraordinaire, Shamit Vasa, the young executive working with India’s largest private sector company enjoys balancing his time around work, family, golf and now yoga. Together, the ‘foodie five’ give me their feedback. FLAMBOYANTE     Over-ambitious restaurants that have omnibus multi-cuisine menus always make me nervous. And the recently introduced Lucknavi menu here would seem to be an unlikely fit with Italian and Oriental. But under the talented Amrish Arora, specialty chefs heading each separate kitchen pull this off with great panache.     Without doubt, the Lucknawi kitchen evokes the most “wah wahs”. The nalli nihari has exactly the silkiness and succulence — considerable, but not reckless — that seduces. Ditto for the kakori kebab and bazaari chicken kebab. Surprisingly, the thin crust pizzas (pepperoni and hot chilli onion) pizza (for veggies) are as good. Close seconds are Thai Beckti fish and the chatpata chicken cascade. The generously-portioned desserts of baked cheese cake and Tiramisu are wellmade. Check out the bakery, the wellstocked wine tasting room, get serenaded by the guitarist who plays every Tuesdays and Sundays.     The kitchen falters in its dim sum (thick skins), Tenderloin onion chilli (smothered with onions) and the lacklustre mezze platter. Service can be slow and confused. Seating in the busy courtyard is recommended (I prefer it to the twin-levelled indoors) especially in the cooler months and at night (seductive lighting, live band from Wednesday–Friday). Sit away from the pedestal fans (they blow your hair away) and be prepared for slow service and a noisy courtyard.     However, most importantly, in this open through the day, moderately priced (meal for 2 at Rs 1,000) eatery, there is a charm…a certain buoyancy…that papers over it’s shortcomings and makes you want to go back. Also, nalli nihari, kakori kebab…Jai ho!     P.S. Unique Sunday brunch for Rs 1,250 with live band. Eat as much from the three menus. Happy hours from 6.30pm – 8.30pm (50 per cent off).     FLAMBOYANTE World Trade Centre, Cuffe Parade, Colaba, 22180433-34, Open noon to midnight Food-3.50 Service-3.25 Décor-3.50
Caste, good governance trump prices for voters TIMES NEWS NETWORK New Delhi: Price rise is not the game-changer in elections as it has been trotted out to be. While there have been elections in the past that have been won or lost on inflation — Delhi in 1998 being a good example when the skyrocketing price of onions brought tears to the eyes of then ruling BJP — a TOI study based on inputs from at least 10 centres reveals that escalating prices are no longer influencing voter choices.     Instead, their vote goes on a host of other issues with caste and community considerations taking precedence over prices. Even in predominantly middle class societies as in Delhi and other metropolises, people would rather vote for good governance than escalating prices.     Voters in rural areas, on the other hand, are more influenced by caste and community considerations. It’s very unlikely, for example, a diehard Reddy who supports YSR-led Congress government in Andhra Pradesh, to use his vote against the ruling party there merely because of price rise. This would hold true even if he would fall in the category of poor.     In Mumbai, for instance, which recorded 44% voting, price rise was a non-issue. As an office assistant in south Mumbai says, ‘‘Pulses are selling for Rs 72 per kg. We are having dal at the price of mutton! But, if bringing another party to power was the answer, I would change my vote.’’ He wasn’t enthused about voting and didn’t.     Ganesh Ramkrishna Lonkar, the father of Tanvi who played Latika in ‘Slumdog Millionaire’, says, ‘‘Price rise and corruption pale into insignificance during a grand event like the general elections. People feel that recession etc., are temporary problems that could occur irrespective of the party in power. Regionalism plays a far greater role than any other issue.’’     In Bangalore, the majority was of the opinion that price rise did not influence their vote. Says Santosh, an auto driver, ‘‘It didn’t weigh on my mind when I voted.’’ He did not forget to emphasise that he had no politics of his own. ‘‘I alone can’t bring change,’’ he said.     Ajith Gopinath, a lawyer, did not vote. ‘‘I decided against voting as I think it’s useless. All the parties out there are fooling us. The government has failed to check the spiralling prices.’’     Averil, an upper class housewife, says, ‘‘I live within a budget. If things are expensive, I won’t buy. It’s difficult to blame anybody. But I won’t change my vote just because of this,’’ she says.     “Mehenga daal, mehengi cheeni, mehenga hua khan paan; Congress bhagao, BJP lao, jeena toh ho asaan,” is the SMS spamming mobile phones in Himachal, indicating BJP wants to make spiralling prices an issue. But, as former economic advisor to the state government Ashok Rajan says, ‘‘Prices have a greater impact on the salaried classes.’’ And this class, as we know, has little bearing on election results.     Richa Sood, a working woman in Shimla, feels there’s more to voting than just prices. ‘‘Rising prices are a matter of concern, but when it comes to the future of the country then there’s more at stake than just the cost of living, which has been going up. Between rising prices and good governance, I would vote for good governance,’’ she says.     Even in Rajasthan, when it comes to issues affecting voter choice, price rise features with a majority of the people, but isn’t the decisive factor. While urban areas report concern about price rise, rural regions don’t care a jot and vote according to local considerations of caste, etc.     In Patna, voters don’t appear unduly bothered by skyrocketing prices. ‘‘It’s surprising. The hike in prices of basic items should affect the lower income group. But it doesn’t. It’s only the urban middle class which talks about price rise,’’ said Rakesh Kumar a college teacher in Patna.
Fuel dealers welcome hike, but veggie rates may soar Chinmayi Shalya & Joshua AP I TNN Mumbai: Dealers welcomed the Rs 4 hike in petrol prices on Wednesday, saying the move was long overdue. The soaring prices of international crude oil ensured that dealers shell out more to purchase petrol. Now, some of the burden has been transferred to the consumer, they said. Though the hike is likely to send vegetable prices soaring, taxis would, by and large, be unaffected by the new development.     “This hike should have come when crude prices were at $45 per barrel. We have been paying extra money since then. Considering the upward trend in oil prices in general, the government has finally passed some of the burden to the consumer,’’ said Ravi Shinde from Federation of All Maharashtra Petrol Dealers Association.     “Hiking petrol price is an unpopular move, but must be taken. If the entire amount incurred on purchase of petrol was to be levied on the consumer, it would come up to Rs 10 at least. The government, dealers and the consumers are bearing it all the same,’’ he said.     Dealers, however, said the state government should take steps to reduce the sales tax. “People in the Maharashtra pay the highest sales tax on petrol in the country. This is unfair,’’ said Nitin Dossa, chairman, Western India Automobile Association.     The rise in petrol prices is likely to have a cascading effect on vegetable prices as transportation would cost more. “The hike might affect wholesalers and retailers. Farmers, too, will be affected as transportation rates will increase, while their profits decrease,’’ said Ashok Walunj, director, APMC onion and potato market. Taxi services in the city, however, are likely to be unaffected as most of them run on CNG.     Petrol pumps in the city witnessed serpentine queues as people flocked to tank up before the price hike. Many pumps downed shutters early, citing that there was no stock.
Buying greens? Shop wholesale Vijay Singh & Joshua A P | TNN Navi Mumbai: Unseasonal rains and the recent hike in petrol and diesel rates have affected the prices of vegetables and pulses as well.     However, wholesale vegetable traders at the APMC market in Vashi say that the food prices are increasing unreasonably in the retail sector while there is only a marginal increase in wholesale rates.     In the grains and pulses market, though, there is a remarkable increase in the wholesale rates of various types of dals, chillies, rice and wheat.     Ashok Walunj, the director of APMC’s onion and potato market, says that the prices of onions may also increase in the next month-anda-half. “Delayed rains are leading to a shortage in the supply of onions and potatoes. The wholesale prices of onions may actually rise to Rs 20 per kg if the shortage continues,’’ said Walunj.     According to him, the government’s move to hike the fuel prices has also led to an increase in the prices of vegetables as the cost of transportation rises.     Satyawan Waghmare, a trader in the vegetable market, said, “As the monsoon is not yet in full swing in some parts of Maharashtra, it will affect the sowing season. Right now, we are facing a shortage in supply, and if the monsoon is bad, the prices may rise further.’’     But as can be seen in the rate-box below, the vegetable rates have not really ballooned in the wholesale sector. “The retailers, on the other hand, have their own reasons for charging higher on account of the high-fuel rates and other factors,’’ said a trader at Vashi.     The popular Tur Dal in the grains and pulses market has increased to Rs 85 per kg as compared to just Rs 56 per kg exactly a month ago.     Urad dal has also increased to Rs 53 per kg from Rs 39 per kg in May; rajma (beans) costs Rs 68 per kg in the wholesale market as compared to Rs 42 last month.     Wheat rate has also gone up to Rs 14.25 per kg from Rs 12 per kg last month, while fine rice costs Rs 36 per kg, instead of only Rs 27 per kg in 2008.
AN EXPENSIVE MEAL
WINE & DINE
Now, cruise to a spiritual high Himanshi Dhawan | TNN New Delhi: Who says the path to nirvana has to be paved with abstinence and detachment? Certainly not the organizers of Indian spiritual cruises, which offer pravachan (religious discourse), vegetarian food and meditation in the midst of opulence and the occasional vice.     Spiritual leaders like Mridul Maharaj and Baba Ramdev, followed by a throng of devotees, are opting to cruise to overseas destinations like southeast Asia and Europe. They typically board large cruise liners, which have other passengers as well, for a spiritual high on the high seas. So, in these liners, a Lido theatre that may be entertaining a noisy crowd with its topless shows at night, is transformed into a samadhan meeting with chants reverberating in the wee hours of the morning. Hyderabad-based software company promoter Govind Kabra, who has been organizing tours of spiritual leaders for the past three years through the non-profit Dharmik Yatra Trust, said the popularity of such group tours was increasing. ‘‘Till a few years ago, there were about 1,000-1,500 people taking such cruises each year. Now, the number has gone up to 15,000 or more,’’ he said. About 80% of the participants are people living in India while the rest are NRIs.     Kabra said such groups had special requirements, including supper at midnight when kathas were on, ‘‘masala tea that Indians seem to prefer’’ and a vast range of vegetarian food that has no onion, ginger or garlic. ‘‘We offer a choice of about 70-80 dishes that are turned out at every meal. Kathas are restricted to 3-4 hours a day so that people spend the rest of the time sightseeing or exploring the ship,’’ Kabra further said. The trips, usually organized in the ‘‘non-marriage season’’ from July-August and in January after Sankranti, are very popular. Experts feel that these cruises, priced at about $150-200 a night, fill a gap that the industry had earlier ignored. Royal Caribbean’s Gautam Chadha said, ‘‘The trend is gathering momentum. Spiritual cruises were popular amongst NRIs but now Indians are also following suit.’’
EXTRAS Dhoni-Yuvi fight for No. 1 ranking MS Dhoni’s No. 1 ODI batsman’s tag is under threat from deputy Yuvraj Singh. Dhoni is the No. 1 batsman with 44 rating points separating him from Yuvraj and the order might undergo a change depending on who performs better. Onions replaces Flintoff: Graham Onions has replaced Andrew Flintoff in England's squad for the Champions Trophy , the England and Wales Cricket Board (ECB) announced on Monday. Tresco returns: Three years after he left India midway through a cricket series due to a “stress-related illness’’, former England opener Marcus Trescothick will return to the country for the Champions League Twenty20 as part of a 15-member Somerset team. Champions League tickets on sale: The lowest denomination tickets in the preliminary phase of the inaugural Airtel Champions League Twenty20 tournament, starting at Bangalore on October 8, would cost Rs 100 and the highest priced tickets would cost Rs 3000. Bari to be made COO: Former captain Wasim Bari’s appointment as the Chief Operating Officer (COO) of the Pakistan Cricket Board (PCB) is more or less certain and the PCB would shortly announce it.
J U G U L A R V E I N Sweep of history Jug Suraiya     Economists keep telling us that we are currently in a phase of negative inflation. Which in economese (the language that only economists speak, and only economists understand) means that prices of things are coming down. This proves that economists don’t eat daal, the price of which – far from coming down – has shot up like one of those space rockets ISRO keeps launching, and is now Rs 90-plus a kg (daal that is, not ISRO rockets). This also proves that economists don’t eat onions, which are Rs 20 a kg. Moreover – and most significantly – this proves that economists don’t use a jhaaru, that indispensable item of daily use in every Indian household.     The other day, Bunny informed me that Sudha, our domestic help, had indented for a new jhaaru, the old one having given up the ghost, after yeoman service sweeping up the doggy hairs that Brindle deposits on the carpets and furniture every day. OK, i said, fishing out a crumpled tenner from the dusty recesses of my wallet. This won’t do, said Bunny. Sudha says a jhaaru now costs 38 rupees. Thirty-eight bucks? For a lowly jhaaru? Does Sudha think jhaarus grow on trees? i demanded. Which, come to think of it, they probably do. I’d never thought of where jhaarus come from, but with their feathery, frond-like appearance they probably do come from trees. Maybe Sudha – enterprising soul – was proposing to invest in a whole jhaaru tree, or even an entire plantation of jhaaru trees, and was planning to use my 38 rupees as venture capital for the project.     But it turned out that i was mistaken. It seemed that Sudha was not in fact thinking of cornering the jhaaru market, becoming the Mukesh Ambani of the jhaaru trade, so to speak, and having Anil take out snide public interest ads about monopolists and cartels and whathave-yous, or rather what-have-younots, the monopolist having glommed all available supplies of the commodity in question. Which in this case was jhaarus. A single one of which, i discovered, now cost 38 smackers. So much – or should that be so little? – for negative inflation. And for non-jhaaruwielding economists.     The jhaaru – India’s low-cost (till now), eco-friendly answer to the western world’s vacuum cleaner – is much more than a humble instrument of domestic sanitary engineering. It is an emblem and a daily memento of the cyclical sweep of our ancient history, and of our even more ancient mythology that lies beyond the horizon of time. Did Sita do jhaaru when she and Ram and Lakshman were in vanvaas? Of course she did, must have. Forests are full of dust, and like any proud homemaker – or vanmaker, which would be more accurate in her case – Sita must have wielded a jhaaru along with the best of them, keeping their patch of forest spick and span for Ram to come home to of an evening after a hard day of doing whatever it is that exiled god-kings do in the wilderness. In fact, so assiduous was Sita in her jhaaruing that she overstepped the protective line that brother-in-law Lakshman had drawn for her and got herself abducted by Ravana, but that’s another story.     Ever since Sita, Indian households – and forestholds – have witnessed the daily ritual of not the removal but the reallocation of dust with the use of the jhaaru: every day the ancient, abiding dust – the same patient dust swept through the ages by Sita, and the Maurya dynasty, and the Mughals, and the British, and now us – is swept out through the door and relocated outside, from where the wind will blow it back in again, in an endless circle of ebb and flow. Thirtyeight bucks? A small price to pay for an eternal tidal flow of which, part and parcel, is that half a handful of dust called me. Bring on the jhaaru. And inflation be damned. Together with the economists.
TALKING POINT Cong-NCP to pay a dear price for tur dal & sugar Viju B | TNN Mumbai: When asked what the single biggest contribution made by the Congress- NCP government was, hotelier Santhosh Shetty who runs a nonvegetarian restaurant in Sewri chuckles and says: “Tandoori chicken has become more affordable than a dal fry.’’ A kilo of chicken costs around Rs 65, but the price of tur dal now hovers around Rs 88-90.     In the last one year alone, the price of vegetables, pulses and grains have gone up by almost 50%. According to election pundits, voters from the lower-middle class and slum dwellers — who make up over 55% of Mumbai’s voters — may turn the tide against the ruling party.     “Genuine issues like the recent price hikes have been ignored and it’s a shame that political parties are fighting among themselves to get tickets for their relatives. The majority of the voters who are in the Rs 6,000 to 12,000 bracket have been adversely affected. This will play an important role in the upcoming assembly elections,’’ said psephologist Uday Nirgudkar.     It is a truth universally acknowledged that the price of onions can determine the fate of political parties. “But this time, it’s not only onions, but the price of pulses, vegetables and grains that have skyrocketed,’’ said Parimal Shah, a motor insurance surveyor. He added that a few people staying near wholesale markets like Dadar, Vashi and Borivli may get some relief as the prices there are 20% lower than what is quoted in retail outlets.     And the Congress may have to pay for this, as the common feeling is that the party has forgotten its promise of making tur dal and sugar available at subsidised rates through the Public Distribution System (PDS). “This time, I will definitely not vote for the Congress as they have done nothing to reduce the prices. How will I feed my family if the price of one kilo of dal is around Rs 100? We have already cut down on sugar as it has become unaffordable,’’ said P Muragaiya who stay in Dharavi and works as a security guard at a commercial establishment in Matunga.     Amrital P Jakharia a retailer from IC colony Borivli said the cost of one quintal of tur dal went up to Rs 1,000 and retailers are refusing to place bulk orders. “We had bad sales this year and customers even switched to lower quality rice, which was once priced at Rs 20/kg, but now costs Rs 30,’’ he said.     Wholesale traders of the Agricultural Produce Market Committee (APMC) blame the situation on the erratic monsoon which in turn affected the crops. “The bulk of vegetables we are getting has dropped by 20%. Naturally, the prices are bound to go up,’’ said Praveen Satpal, a wholesale trader.     But activists are not impressed by this reasoning. “The state has not invoked the Essential Commodities Act under which one can book a trader for hoarding grains and pulses. Many traders are indulging in hoarding in view of bad monsoon so that they can sell when the demand goes up,’’ said former IPS officer, Y P Singh.     With inputs from Sanjeev Shivadekar
Flood damages crops, prices may soar TIMES NEWS NETWORK New Delhi/Pune: The flood fury in Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka may affect standing crop, adding to the expected shortfall in kharif production while pushing up food prices. As much as two lakh hectares of paddy is submerged in Andhra Pradesh and in Karnataka, the pigeon pea or arhar crop has been hit.     Apart from the two states, heavy rainfall in parts of Maharashtra has affected jowar and bajra—often grown as secondary crops while rice and wheat are regarded as the main “foodgrains’’. The unseasonal rain in the western state has hit paddy in areas like Ratnagiri while thousands of hectares of jowar are being re-sown.     Rains have damaged crops in 54 talukas in Maharashtra. Major crops damaged include rice, cotton, soyabean, maize, sugarcane, onion and jowar. Solapur, Sindhudurg and Ratnagiri districts are the worst hit. Heavy rains also caused damage to standing crops in parts of Sangli, Kolhapur, Pune, Ahmednagar and Satara districts. Crops were damaged in 165 villages in Konkan district.     According to the state agriculture department, the state has registered a rainfall of 87 mm from October 1 to 6, as against 13 mm, which is an average expected rainfall for the same period—approximately 680% more.     Some parts of Ratnagiri and Sindhudurg have registered over 400 mm rainfall on a single day during this period. However, according to the Maharashtra agriculture department, the rainfall in the first week of October will prove helpful for the rabbi crop. The rabi sowing has already begun at many parts of Marathwada and Vidarbha. “Though the rabi sowing now will be delayed by around 15 days due to heavy rainfall, there would be rise in rabi sowing later,’’ said an official from the state agriculture department.     The impact of the floods will increase the paddy deficit pegged at 10 million by agriculture minister Sharad Pawar. The exact extent of the damage will be evident once the waters start receding and officials are hoping the flooding does not last long. If waters recede within four-five days, some crop might survive, but a firm assessment would have to wait.     What is bothering the Centre is that apart from increasing the production shortfall which in itself may not be significant in view of large reserves, the rains are likely to sharply impact prices. Food prices have been “consistently’’ high for more than a year now and wholesale markets have signalled a further rise unless rains stop soon. Supplies are bound to be affected with standing crop being hit.     Apart from affecting foodgrains, the rains have also taken a toll on vegetables in many states making these essentials expensive. There have been heavy rains in north Indian states like Uttarakhand and Himachal Pradesh over the weekend which farmers are hoping will stop in time for the kharif harvest while vegetable supplies to cities like Delhi may be affected.     The weather patterns have foxed officials monitoring agriculture with drought first impacting the kharif crop and now heavy rains threatening do the same as late withdrawal from north India seems to have had a fallout elsewhere as well. Also, the rains this year have arrived in short, sharp and heavy bursts and could mark a change in monsoon behaviour though this needs a more careful assessment.     The price spike may well happen around Diwali when the demand due to festive season is high. There have been apprehensions that sugar could cost more and, despite release of stocks and imports, cereals would be affected as well with officials feeling the “real’’ impact would be felt towards the year-end after the kharif production reaches markets. Managing shortfalls through imports is not easy given the high volumes.     The rains may also have delayed the final production estimates as floodhit states are not in a position to offer crop assessments. Some other states are running behind schedule. The late rain helped mitigate effects of the terrible drought that gripped many parts of India in June, July and most of August, but the post-monsoon rain has come as a dampner before the festive season. SHOWER OF SORROW Over 2 lakh hectares of paddy are submerged in Andhra Pradesh Pigeon pea or arhar crop has been badly damaged in Karnataka Heavy rain has damaged crops like rice, cotton, soyabean and jawar in 54 talukas of Maharashtra Crops have been badly hit in 165 villages of Konkan district Maharashtra agricultre dept hopes rain in October will be beneficial for rabi crop
Rising onion prices may cost Congress-NCP dear Ambarish Mishra | TNN Mumbai: Onion, the great leveller in Indian politics, has raised a stink ahead of the assembly elections. On Tuesday, the onion was pegged at Rs 22 a kilo in the city markets, triggering widespread resentment.     “Onion is indispensable in the kitchen. The family budget has gone awry as onion prices keep going up,’’ said Rashmi Kalangutkar, a housewife from Jogeshwari. Marketing minister Harshavardhan Patil, who is camping in his constituency, could not be reached by telephone.     “Onion will be the undoing of the ruling DF government,’’ said Shiv Sena secretary Anil Desai on Tuesday. “The Congress-NCP government has no moral right to continue in office even for a day.’’     Desai reminded that onion had added to the BJP government’s woes at the Centre in the 1990s. “A few years ago, the growing onion prices had sealed the fate of the Delhi and Haryana assembly elections.’’     However, Sena-BJP activists find it tough to pacify the voters. Said a Sena activist from Girgaum, “If you tell them that the DF alliance is responsible for the rising prices of onion, they retort—what have you been doing as Opposition?’’     The Congress, which hopes to repeat its LS poll performance in the assembly elections in Mumbai, faces the heat, particularly in slums—the party’s time-tested votebank. Said a Congress worker from Damupada in Kandivli, “Rising onion prices will bring tears to the eyes of our candidates in the elections. Kaanda could add to our vanda (problems).’’
Delhi, Fatehpur Sikri on ‘places of lifetime’ list Himanshi Dhawan | TNN New Delhi: Delhi, a city people love to hate for its traffic, lack of civic services, civility and now its inability to appear trussed and ready for the Commonwealth Games, has found a place of honour in the National Geographic Traveler magazine’s ‘50 Places of a Lifetime.’     The capital and Fatehpur Sikri are the only two Indian destinations to make it to the prestigious list that is part of the travel magazine’s compilation that comes after a decade-long gap. In fact, the first list published in 1999 featured the Taj Mahal and put Kerala on the international map after it was described as ‘Paradise Found’.     Interestingly, the piece on Delhi has been written by minister of state for external affairs Shashi Tharoor who describes the city as a “symbol of a country on the move, the urban flagship of a better tomorrow”. Calling it the “fastforward capital”, Tharoor writes, “New Delhi is India’s contemporary equivalent — kinetic, heterodox, anti-ritual, prosperous. For all its inadequacies, it is a symbol of a country on the move, the urban flagship of a better tomorrow. It is leading India into the 21st century, even at the price of forgetting all that happened in the other 20.”     He adds, “Today’s New Delhi — not the musty bureaucratic edifices of government, but the throbbing thriving agglomeration of factories and TV studios, industrial fairgrounds and software consultancies, night clubs and restaurants—is a city that reflects the vigour and vitality of those who have made it. It is far and away India’s richest city.”     Just as historians feared that the elegance of Fatehpur Sikri would forever live under the shadow of the Taj, the monument has found its place as a World Wonder in the Traveler list.     Author of Branding India, An Incredible Story and former joint secretary with the tourism ministry Amitabh Kant says of the monument, “In this glowing sandstone city, elegant lattices, umbrella style pavilions, and Hindu imagery meet elegant onion domes and Islamic arches. The great archway leading to the Friday mosque reflects this religious diversity, its surface inscribed with a saying attributed to Christ... Attracting throngs of visitors each year, its latticed walls have grown heavy with the red threads of their wishes as they weave their own stories into history.”
HOW ANTI-INCUMBENCY VOTES WERE SPLIT: AN ANALYSIS DF’s tacit support to Raj crippled BJP-Sena Team TOI Mumbai: The division of the anti-incumbency votes and the opposition’s inability to cash in on several burning issues resulted in the Congress-NCP win in Maharashtra.     The ruling combine shrewdly ensured the splitting of the vote with two political manoeuvres—a tacit support to Raj Thackeray’s MNS as well as Ramdas Athavale’s Third Front. Sources in the Congress admit that their party did a lot of mobilisation of people for the MNS’s first rally at Shivaji Park on March 19, 2006. After the build-up, the MNS did eat into some of the Congress-NCP votes, but overall its role was to cripple the Sena-BJP which it did with aplomb. The NCP’s backing of the Third Front—Athavale’s personal equation with NCP chief Sharad Pawar is well known—helped splinter the vote in general.     The opposition also weakened its own case by failing to take up serious issues with which it could have turned the heat on the government. Indeed, when the Sena, in an election advertisement, used a photograph of a 1980s anti-price rise morcha led by Mrinal Gore and Ahilya Rangnekar of the Janata Dal and the CPM, there was much derision. Said Raj Thackeray: “It speaks volumes about the nonperformance of the opposition that it had to use old photographs of other parties’ leaders for its campaign this year.’’     Farmers’ suicides (according to activist Kishore Tiwari, in the ten years of Congress-NCP rule, 7,816 farmers in Vidarbha ended their lives) too were not used to pin down the government. Apart from token protests, neither the Sena nor the BJP took up the issue even though the Union agriculture minister, Sharad Pawar, is from Maharashtra. Neither was the power crisis taken seriously though vast swathes of rural Maharashtra continue to reel under daily 12-hour power cuts (again, Union energy minister Sushilkumar Shinde is from the state). Here too, the opposition, despite pointing out that the government had not added a single MW to its power generation in 10 years, staged only token protests. As Raj Thackeray observed wryly, “The Shiv Sena asked consumers not to pay Reliance Infrastructure’s electricity bills, but accepted the company’s ads in Saamna.’’     Inflation, the big ticket issue affecting every voter, was also ignored. In a state where the prices of onions, tur dal, tea and just about everything else have shot up (in Mumbai a cup of tea in a rundown stall costs Rs 9), there was no noise from the opposition. “Mrinal Gore and Ahilya Rangnekar, who travelled by local trains and BEST buses, knew the pulse of the people. Sena-BJP leaders travel by Pajeros and Lexuses and are big builders. How do you expect them to understand the mood of the aam aadmi?’’ a Sena shakha pramukh observed. Adding piquantly, “We could have been the Shah Rukh Khan of politics, but we chose to be Shakti Kapoor.’’
Costly affair: Inflation up at 1.51% New Delhi: Inflation rose fastest in six months to stand at 1.51%, much in line with the RBI’s warning that inflationary pressures are building up in the economy, prompting it to tighten money supply.     Inflation grew by 0.30% points during the week ended October 17 from 1.21% in the previous week, even as many food items became cheaper. However, on yearly basis, food stuffs remained expensive, turning costlier by 13%, with potato prices soaring by 98%, onion 45%, sugar 46% and pulses 23%. Inflation rose even on high base effect as it stood at 10.82% a year ago.     Analysts pointed out that from now on, inflation will be on the rise and may touch 6.5% as projected by the Reserve Bank. “The RBI’s projection of a 6.5% inflation is realistic,’’ Crisil principal economist D K Joshi said.     Many economists are, however, hopeful about food prices coming down as on weekly basis these have started declining. Food prices declined 0.07% on weekly basis as mainly vegetables and sea fish prices came down. AGENCIES
Wheat MSP raised by Rs 20 New Delhi: The Centre on Thursday hiked the minimum support price (MSP) of wheat by Rs 20 and of chana (gram) by Rs 30 per quintal at the start of the rabi season. The Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs (CCEA) also raised the MSP for some other rabi crops, such as barley.     “The MSP of wheat has been fixed at Rs 1,100 per quintal, marking an increase of Rs 20 per quintal over last year’s MSP,” home minister P Chidambaram said addressing the media after the meeting. The increase was one-fourth of the one made last year by the government and much less than what wheat-growing states such as Punjab had demanded. The move to keep the increase to a lower level indicated the fears within the government of rising prices. On a day when the government also reported a steep increase in prices of food crops like onions and potatoes, the worries over runaway food inflation seemed to have forced the government’s hand. TNN
Inflation at 1.5%, but food prices go through roof Potatoes Cost Double, Onions Dearer By 50% And Pulses 23% TIMES NEWS NETWORK New Delhi: Even as the overall inflation rate remains at around 1.5%, prices of food articles have gone up by 13.4% in the last one year. That statistic, officially released on Thursday, is bad news for the aam admi, but details of specific commodities like potatoes, onions and pulses show that it is even worse.     As decided earlier, the government discontinued the release of a weekly data on price rise of all commodities. Instead, it released a data on price increases in select commodities. According to the latest data, the prices of potatoes have doubled over the last 12 months, onions are 50% more expensive and the prices of pulses have gone up by over 23% on average.     The bad news doesn’t end there. Food and agriculture minister Sharad Pawar has already said it is unlikely that the prices will ease in the next three months. He anticipates the situation to change for the better only when the rabi crops are harvested early next summer.     Contributing to the spike in food prices has been a weak monsoon, which is expected to lead to foodgrain production falling by around 21 million tonnes in the current kharif season compared to kharif 2008. Rice production is estimated to fall by over 15 million tons and the output of coarse cereals by 5.5 million tons.     As usual, the price rise in the food articles has affected the middle and lower-middle class people adversely. Senior economist with HDFC Bank D K Joshi said the fall in agriculture production was one of the main reasons behind the price rise. He added that the situation had worsened because some traders were exploiting the conditions. “The present price rise will affect the standard of living of poor people,’’ he said.     A government economist said the Centre should release more foodgrains in the market to control the price rise.
Price Of Onions Food inflation requires more than short-term palliatives     Despite overall inflation at a non-threatening 1.5 per cent, food prices have risen 13.4 per cent in the past one year. If a dry statistic has no power to pinch, the same can’t be said of actual prices of potatoes, onions and pulses. These have zoomed north, with prices of onions and potatoes spiking by 50-100 per cent, and pulses by over 23 per cent on average. Worse, it seems there’ll be no immediate let-up. The agriculture minister admits prices could remain high till the rabi crop’s harvesting. End-2009 is the Planning Commission’s more hopeful timeframe for relief.     The capricious monsoon – drought preceding floods – has hit kharif production, which could end up over 21 million tonnes short. Output of rice and coarse cereals is expected to sag. What hope is the government holding out? One, due to late rains, larger areas cultivated for wheat, rice, pulses, oilseeds and sugarcane should boost the rabi yield, compensating for the kharif shortfall. Two, there’s enough foodgrain stocks to keep the PDS ticking, and enough foreign exchange reserves for foodgrain and oilseed imports if required. To be fair, the UPA’s okay to rice imports and scrapping of import duty on rice were forward-looking policy decisions.     However, there’s no insulating the rural and urban poor or the middle class from spiralling vegetable prices. It’s in such situations that our ramshackle storage and transport system for perishables stands exposed. That huge quantities of fruits, vegetables and grains go waste every year is especially galling given today’s soaring prices. Also, despite healthy foodgrain stocks, there are official concerns about a demand-supply mismatch. This gap can worsen unless the PDS’s notorious leakages are plugged. More, foodgrain should be released into the open market to dampen inflation.     This year’s lesson highlights the issue of monsoon preparedness through improved forecasting and specific strategies for demarcated agro-climatic zones. But even beyond that, agriculture isn’t growing according to potential. It suffers structural anomalies impinging on food production, not least because only 40 per cent of arable land is irrigated. Not only must irrigation cover increase, it must be more innovative from the point of view of water conservation. Efficient capital deployment and use of technology require average farm size to increase. On the distribution side, we need boosted investment in warehousing and integrated cold chains, removal of middlemen in transactions and greater marketing opportunities for farmers through liberalised retail. Finally, reform is in order of archaic rules governing inter-state movement and marketing of farm products.
Food inflation up 13.68% New Delhi: Higher prices of staple vegetables such as onion and potato pushed food inflation higher — to 13.68% — in the last week of October.     On an annual basis, prices of potato have doubled during the one-year period ending October 31, 2009, while onions were expensive by 42.58%.     High food prices also pushed up inflation of primary articles (items that are not processed) by 9.16%. Pulses were also dearer by 22.73%.     The government will release the monthly data on wholesale prices-based inflation, which reflects price movement in manufacturing, on November 14. AGENCIES
90% grape crop destroyed 72K Hectares Of Farmland Affected. Nashik, Satara, Ratnagiri Worst Hit Yogesh Naik, Bella Jaisinghani & Vijay Singh | TNN Mumbai: The city may have been spared a visible battering by Cyclone Phyan on Wednesday, but the rest of Maharashtra is reeling under its effect, with more than 72,000 hectares of farmland destroyed. This, said state agriculture commissioner Prabhakar Deshmukh, is the first estimate of the damage.     Nashik, Satara, Sangli, Ratnagiri, and Sindhudurg districts have been badly affected. The damage also included 20,000 hectares of fruit crop. “Grape crop on 17,000 hectares has been affected,’’ said Deshmukh, adding that 31,000 hectares of paddy fields in Vidarbha have also been hit.     If Thursday’s official announcement about the rate of food inflation moving up to 13.68% were not enough, the city will shortly have to contend with the impact of another round of unseasonal rains seen this week. Already, onions have become costlier by 33.4% and potatoes by 27.9%. “The green belt of Ratnagiri and Nashik as well as the higher reaches of Mahabaleshwar have witnessed heavy rain,’’ said Pravin Wagh, head of the Crawford Market Fruitsellers Association.     “Grapes, strawberry, even sugarcane, have been badly hit. This will have an adverse impact on wholesale and retail prices within a fortnight once farmers assess the damage caused to the crop that is yet to be harvested. Apart from this, consignments that were lined up for despatch have also become soaked,’’ he said.     The cyclone as brought bad tidings to grape farmers and merchants as nearly 90% of the fruit in the Nashik farms has been destroyed. “The high water content in grapes makes them extremely susceptible to the vagaries of the weather,’’ said Wagh. “A little rain and the fruit rots as we are witnessing in Nashik, Tasgaon and Junnar.”     A trader, Sanjay Pansare, said: “We received 500 boxes on Thursday, but this was poor quality, decayed fruit.’’ He added that vegetables in transit were destroyed en route, and that the shortage caused by this loss could also cause prices to rise.     Supply to the APMC wholesale market in Vashi has also reduced. The director of APMC, Sudhir Tungar, said, “While 372 trucks and tempos arrived on Wednesday, there were only 209 arrivals on Thursday. We are hoping that the situation normalises.’’     The cyclone also prevented fishermen from venturing out to sea. “Thankfully the market price of fish is not affected by such short interludes. Already 30% of the boats resumed fishing activity Thursday,’’ said Nandu Bhave, a Koli leader of Versova.     The state government has instructed district collectors to gauge the exact damage. This decision was taken during an-hour long meeting — chaired by chief minister Ashok Chavan and attended by revenue minister Narayan Rane, finance and planning minister Sunil Tatkare and senior bureaucrats — held at Mantralaya on Thursday.     DAMAGES According to officials, the state has incurred a loss of around Rs 30 crore. The figure is expected to rise Damage of agricultural crop: Rs 19. 5 crore Loss to fisheries: Rs 4 crore Revenue loss: Rs 6.32 crore
Inflation doubles, RBI may up rates New Delhi: Inflation more than doubled in a month to 1.34% in October despite cheaper food prices, which analysts see would strengthen the case for the Reserve Bank of India to tighten money supply. Strong showing by the industry in September has already added fuel to the debate for withdrawing fiscal stimulus. Inflation was 0.5% in September, according to data from the government, which has switched to the monthly mode for measuring rise in wholesale prices. Among food items, vegetable prices declined considerably to 16.43% from September level, but figures of the actual decline were not available. However, onions and potato prices rose 29.88% and 11.18%, respectively. With the RBI expecting inflation to touch 6.5% by the end of this fiscal, analysts believe the central bank might go full steam on ending its easy monetary policy. “I expect CRR hike by 25 basis points in January policy. There could be some action on policy rates,’’ said HDFC bank economist Jyotinder Kaur. AGENCIES
China, India to set pace in growth Indian Economy Will Grow 6.1% In 2009 and 7.3% The Following Year: OECD Paris: Emerging market economies China and India are poised to accelerate due to strong stimulus measures while Japan's recession has “bottomed out” and its economy will pick up, the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) projected on Thursday.     The forecasts come as many developed nations, which are only slowly emerging from recession, are looking to China and India to act as engines of global growth. South Korea, meanwhile, is enjoying one of the strongest recoveries from the global slump in the 30-nation OECD area, led by exports, the organisation said.     “Vigorous growth has resumed in China” thanks to sizeable monetary and fiscal stimulus, said OECD.     The Paris-based group hiked its growth forecast for China to 8.3% in 2009 and 10.2% in 2010. In March, it had pegged China’s growth at 6-7% in 2009. China’s government-backed spending spree will support rapid growth in the near future, but the pace will slacken when the sweeping stimulus measures are withdrawn and growth will slow to 9.3% in 2011, it said.     “Highly stimulatory economic policy will continue to support growth over the near term,” said the OECD, which counts Japan and South Korea as members but not China or India.     For India, the OECD boosted its growth forecast to 6.1% in 2009 and 7.3% in 2010, rising to 7.6% the following year. The OECD, in March, projected 4.3% expansion for India in 2009.     “The Indian economy has weathered the global downturn relatively well,” the OECD remarked. India's recovery was “only modestly hampered” by the driest monsoon in four decades and economic data suggested the growth “momentum is strengthening”.     But a resurgence of inflationary pressures pose a “challenge” to Indian policymakers in deciding when to withdraw fiscal and monetary stimulus to tackle the large public deficit, it said.     Food inflation touches 14.5% New Delhi: Food inflation rose to 14.55% in the first week of November, fuelled by higher prices of staple items like potatoes, onions and pulses. On a weekly basis, inflation rose 0.87 percentage points from 13.68%.     On annual basis, prices of potatoes shot up by 103%, onions by 38% and that of pulses by 27%. Analysts expect prices to remain at elevated level, unless rabi crops are abundant.     “Food inflation is likely to remain high, unless prospects of rabi are known. It is a matter of concern,” Crisil principal economist D K Joshi said. However, he said high onion and potato prices may be seasonal. AGENCIES
TIMES FOOD GUIDE SOUTH ON A PLATTER Rashmi Uday Singh     Andheri rocks. Versova swings. Oshiwara zooms…and my heart sings as I delightedly eat my way through Mumbai researching for The Times Food Guide 2010. Some mindblowing recently introduced Andhra dishes in ITC Grand Maratha’s Dakshin, sensational Awadhi fare at Dum Pukht, the authentic Chinese, Thai and Korean in Pan Asian and the huge number of standalone restaurants here leave me convinced that the culinary centre of gravity has definitely moved North. This part of Mumbai packs more wallop than a bone dry Martini. It bristles with new eateries and traffic jams and is as confusing as it is exciting. So, I am grateful to be guided through it by the charming and discerning foodie Dr Sanjog Dhinsa. This gold medalist dentist loves to cook and to experiment with new dishes. She and her husband Captain Sukhi Dhinsa love to eat out regularly. She leads me to her favourite South Indian vegetarian haven…right next to her home. It’s as much fun tripping out on the food as hearing all about Zach her darling dog who’s celebrating his tenth birthday today. BANANA LEAF Here’s a simple, no-frills South Indian pure veggie eatery that distils South India onto your thali. The fieriness of the Andhra chilli, the silkiness of the coconut infused Kerala, the tanginess of the tamarind flavours of Tamil Nadu and more. Neat and tidy and functional, table and bench décor (with the blessings of Tirupati Balaji placed upfront) focus all our attention on to our thali. Affordable price points (the most expensive is Rs 175 for a full meal of Malabar curry and rice) and swift service too.     I follow Sanjog’s advice and try her favourites. The flavoursome Malabar curry and Appams come out tops. I love the spongy bellies and the crisp lacy edging of the Appams. The Oat meal Uttapam surprises with it’s delicious taste and texture. Even the Idlis are rendered with their own subtle nuances. Ask for the Idli Tokiyal if you like the spikes of the spicy leaf-green chutney: go for the Idli Poriyal if you prefer the milder onion, coconut and curry leaf accompaniment.We eat and eat. Superbly crisp Potato Medu Vada, robust Mushroom Sukkhe from Karnataka. A must try Ragi Dosa, Neer Dosa, Kerala Parotha, Idiappam with sweet milk…my favourite cooling ending Thairu Sadham (they do a great Yelami Cham Sadham, Lemon Rice too) Our cribs? Stodgy Mushroom Dosa and a tender coconut Elaneer Payasam that could be more delicate. Other than that, (pardon the cheap pun), I go bananas about Banana Leaf. Thanks Doc Dhinsa!     P.S. Average meal for two Rs 350, Banana Leaf home delivers even a Rs 45 order.     P.S. I find out much later from Dinesh Nayar and Uday Mirashi that Banana Leaf, Mahesh Lunch home, Salt and Pepper have the same ownership. CHEERS! Do you want to learn more about wine along with wine club founder Subhash Arora, Bindu Malhotra, Prahlad Kakkar? Email at:     BANANA LEAF Shubham CHS, Juhu–Versova Link Road, Andheri (W), Mumbai, Ph: 26709999, 26239999 Open from 10.30 am to 12 midnight Food 4 Service 3.75 Décor 3
Food inflation tops 15% TIMES NEWS NETWORK New Delhi: Food inflation shot up to 15.58% for the second week of November on the back of potato prices, which have more than doubled in the past one year. Other essential items like pulses and onion rose by more than a quarter in the wholesale market, government data on inflation for the week ended November 14 showed.     With inflationary pressure building up, the RBI in its next policy review may take steps to check easy money. It is likely that the RBI in its January policy might go for monetary tightening measures and raise Cash Reserve Ratio or policy rates. According to the inflation data, potato prices rose by 111%, pulses by 35% and onion by 27% in the one-year period ending November 14.     Staple items like wheat and rice rose by 12% each during the period. Vegetables too continued to stalk consumers registering a 12% rise during the same period. However, among fuels petrol prices fell by 12%, cooking gas by 7% and diesel by 6%.
RIDING A CULINARY ‘CREST’ Master chefs of The Maratha’s Dum Pukht and Dakshin restaurants take culinary class for lucky TOI’s Crest Edition readers     Cooking classes can be cool and this is what most readers of The Times of India Crest Edition found out last week at the ITC Maratha, where master chefs of the hotel's flagship Dum Pukht and Dakshin restaurants revealed culinary secrets and intricacies of the amazing cuisines of Awadh and the South to them over lunch. What was the menu? Murgh Awadhi Biryani, Mahi Motia, and Rajma Galouti Kebab from Dum Pukht, lovingly prepared by Master Chef Mohd Shareef, and Mokkajonna Kerrai Vada, Meen Tokku and Chettinad Kozhi Perattal from Dakshin, skillfully dished out by Master Chef Manu R. Nair. Interestingly, the men in the audience were as eager as the ladies to take these lessons in cooking.     The lucky Times of India Crest Edition readers who attended this cooking school did not have to take down the recipes (The Maratha had thoughtfully kept them printed) and could just enjoy the experience of the master chefs bringing out exquisite flavours of the ingredients while cooking. The utensils needed, ingredients, and the proper way to follow the recipes were demonstrated in a step-by-step manner. And soon, the appetising aroma of each dish being prepared wafted into the air.     Lunch followed, everything that was cooked at the class itself, with the chefs making themselves available to answer questions by the curious and hungry participants. Each one went home armed with this culinary knowledge... and recipes from Dum Pukht and Dakshin as well...     The Times of India’s Crest Edition comes every Saturday at an introductory price of Rs. 6. For the non-vegetarians… MURGH AWADHI BIRYANI Serves 5 persons INGREDIENTS Chicken leg boneless - 1 kg Basmati rice - ½ kg Onion (big) - 1 Ginger-garlic paste - 50 gms Yellow chilli powder - 20 gms Mint - 100 gms Green chillies - 60 gms Ginger julienne - 10 gms Cardamom pods - 5 gms Cloves - 5 gms Cinnamon sticks - 2 Caraway seeds - 5 gms Salt - 20 gms Mace - 5 gms Yogurt - 150 gms Lemon (juice) - 1 Cream - 125 gms Oil - 150 gms Ghee - 100 gms Saffron - 1 gm Water - ½ litre Mace powder - 2 tsp METHOD Take oil in a handi and heat it. Add whole garam masala to it. Add sliced onion to the oil and fry till brown. Add ginger garlic paste and sauté well. Add salt and yellow chilli powder to it and sauté well. Next, add yogurt and sauté till it leaves oil. Add water and chicken and boil till chicken is cooked. Soak rice and keep aside. Remove chicken and strain the stock. Add chicken pieces to the strained stock. Boil water and add salt to it. Add soaked rice to water and cook till 60 per cent done. In a lagan, keep chicken and stock ready. Add mint, green chillies, lemon juice and mace powder to it. Layer half cooked rice on top of it. Sprinkle a mixture of cream, ghee and saffron on top. Cover with aluminium foil and cook for 20 minutes. Serve hot. For the vegetarians… MOKKAJONNA KERRAI VADA Serves 4 persons INGREDIENTS American corn - 250 gms Red chillies - 2-3 Chana dal - 100 gms Green chillies (soaked) – 5-6 Cumin - 1 tsp Small Onions (chopped) - 2 Coriander (chopped) - 5 sprigs Mint leaves (chopped) - 5 sprigs Gram flour - 2 tbsp Salt to taste Spinach shredded - 100 gms METHOD Blanch the American corn kernels, strain the water and keep aside. Soak the chana dal for at least a couple of hours along with red chillies. Strain the chana dal and combine it with the American corn. Grind them into a coarse paste. Add the rest of the ingredients and combine thoroughly. Make small patties of the mixture. Heat oil in a frying pan and fry on medium heat till the patties are golden brown in colour. Serve hot with coconut chutney.
Households pay the price as food inflation up 17.5% TIMES NEWS NETWORK & AGENCIES New Delhi: Here’s why your monthly budget has been going haywire all these months even while the government’s overall inflation figures remained at record lows of 0 to 1.5%. In a revealing disclosure, the government on Thursday announced that the average wholesale price of food items had increased by a whopping 17.5% in the past one year.     Onions became dearer by over 12% on a weekly basis and 30.89% on a yearly basis. Pulses rose over 37%, while rice wheat, fruits and milk became costlier by over 10% on a yearly basis.     Ground reports from the markets reveal that the poor monsoon followed by unseasonal rain in Maharashtra is only partially to blame for the steep prices. The cost burden in many cases is being added by retailers.     Experts say the runaway food prices may now start to impact economic growth as rising inflation may force the RBI to shift to a tighter money policy.
Limited menu for families across city Bella Jaisinghani | TNN ‘Opt for cheaper veggies like yam and pumpkin’ Mumbai: Call it food inflation, as the grandiose official term goes, or simply the price rise that the rest of the country laments, a whole new index of unaffordable food items is troubling households across India. In fact, housewives across classes have now become part of a common sorority that seeks to keep its head above water during this unprecedented food crisis, some more than others. We track two households in the city, at either end of the economic spectrum, and find that the dining able is a ghost of its former self     Dinner table conversations in affluent areas of the city have begun to linger on the menu more than they ever have in the past few months. The price of essential commodities has become a talking point even in those households that do not send up a prayer for their daily bread.     Culinary expert Rushina Munshaw-Ghildiyal, who lives with her husband and two children in Chandivali, is taken aback by the newfound pricey nature of the common moong dal, even the coriander she uses to garnish it. In fact, in several neighbourhoods, Lokhandwala Complex for instance, green grocers who would throw in a fistful of coriander and chillies as a freebie with any vegetable purchase have now reined in their charity.     “Coloured bell pepper used to cost Rs 80 per kg in Crawford Market. Now I barely get two for Rs 50, which is double the price. Not just that, a bunch of coriander comes for Rs 80, which is why the vendor sells a few sprigs for Rs 10,’’ she says. “The only time we prepared moong dal without the green garnish on top was when we lived in Chandigarh and coriander was not available during the summer months. This deprivation in a time of abundance is hardly understandable.’’     Given Rushina’s profession as food writer and columnist, hardly a day goes by when friends and relatives do not discuss spiralling food prices with her. Or ask for recipes that can help them skirt the costlier items.     “I have started adapting our own meals to suit the times. Each community has recipes that can be cooked minus onion and tomato, for instance we Gujaratis seldom use a gravy of these items like the Punjabis do. Even south Indians are not particularly insistent on these two for a base. Bengalis make a lovely mixed vegetable without either, while a version of Sindhi curry uses just tamarind and no tomato,’’ says the gourmet.     As far as vegetables go, now is the time to start experimenting with cross-cultural preparations. Most of all, to accord more respect to cheaper vegetables like bottle gourd, yam and pumpkin which have traditionally been considered “famine foods’’ or fasting items, says Rushina.     Yet the one instance she will not compromise is when it comes to her two children, aged seven and two. “We do everything to ensure that they get their daily quota of fruit and milk, if apples are expensive then maybe bananas.’’ Inevitably, the footnote to many a conversation goes thus: if the middle class is having to curtail its menu, what about those at the bottom of the pyramid like daily wage labourers, and hired help? ‘We add lots of water to the dal to make it last’ Mumbai: As the slumdwellers of Versova beach soaked in the sun while observing a film crew organise a ‘Ganpati immersion’ at the location on Friday, they wished they could tide over the current crisis in food prices by some miracle. “Most of our savings have been spent rebuilding our homes after the recent high tide washed them away, and partly because the BMC followed up with its own round of demolitions. We have little to fall back upon,’’ said Kalavati Kanhaiya Pitle, a 55-year-old woman who cooks food in the home of an army colonel.     The average family in the Sagar Kutir slums comprises six people, including married sons and their children. It’s the women who are the main breadwinners for they hold steady jobs as maids in the Seven Bungalows neighbourhood. The men are content to do the odd jobs that come their way. The average monthly household income swivels between Rs 3,000-5,000 at best. Not at an easy prospect in times when food inflation has touched an all-time high of 17.5%.     The women of the Sagar Kutir slums articulate their anxiety by simply listing the prices of wheat, vegetables and rice. Unable to buy from the open market, the community relies on the local fair price shop to exist comfortably.     “The ration shop owner keeps saying the government is not supplying the regular quota of rice or wheat, while selling all the stuff through the backdoor into the open market,’’ the residents allege. In the open bazaars, they are barely able to hold their own. They have been relying on the catch hauled up by local fishermen. “One can always make a meal of cheap fish,’’ says Kalavati. Then comes the rider. “Only one cannot eat boiled fish. One must buy tomato and onion for the gravy.’’     Even the tiny vegetable stalls in the alleys that sell especially to the working class population of each area offer little hope. It is true, quality and prices of food items are always lower at these stores, but even so, residents cannot escape the pinch.     Onions still cost Rs 15-20 per kg versus the grand slam price of Rs 28-32 in the Four Bungalows market. Given their hand-to-mouth existence, the slumdwellers seldom buy even half a kg at these rates. “Even if he gives us two onions or one tomato, we are done with the main dish for the day,’’ Kalavati says, as her daughter-in-law holds up a wilted onion bulb that has little to say for itself.     Dal, interestingly, has not been struck off the menu in this household. “We cannot afford tur or moong dal, so we buy the cheaper variety for about Rs 30-40 less. Use less quantity and add lots of water and make it go around,’’ laughs the matriarch and the women nearby join in.
Food prices: Oppn sees red over Pawar’s reply TIMES NEWS NETWORK New Delhi: Though the UPA government on Tuesday admitted that the situation on food prices is “quite serious”, Opposition led by the BJP walked out of Rajya Sabha saying it was not satisfied with the agriculture minister Sharad Pawar’s reply on spiralling food prices hitting common man.     “It is a very serious situation. We had discussed the issue in parliament in August and there is no remarkable change in the situation” largely because of the 23% deficient monsoon and 316 districts across 13 state being declared drought affected,” Pawar said. While Pawar hoped prices of onion, tur and potato would come down in the near future, the Opposition blamed the government for “inaction”.     “UPA had said we will control prices within 100 days of coming to power” but it failed to do so, BJP leader S S Ahluwalia. The Left parties too joined the walk-out.     The Opposition accused the government of giving “same stereotype answers” in its reply in the House which is discussing issue of price rise for the third time. Admitting that the situation on food inflation is “quite serious,” Pawar blamed state governments for their failure to lift around 20 million tonne foodgrains offered by centre to check price rise. Agriculture minister also attributed the rise to quantum increase in minimum support price for wheat and rice and increase in purchasing power of villagers. “Political will is missing,” BJP MP Kalraj Mishra said. Congressmen said the situation was not as grim as was being projected. Price volatility matter of concern, says Sonia     Congress chief Sonia Gandhi has termed the volatility of prices of essential food items as a matter of concern and called for steps to hold the price line. Sonia said she had already taken up the matter with both PM Manmohan Singh and finance minister Pranab Mukherjee. TNN
PRICES MOVING NORTH Food inflation goes past 19% TIMES NEWS NETWORK New Delhi: Food prices continued to rise, with the index for daily living cost rising to over 19% in the fourth week of November, year-onyear, mounting pressure on the government to rein in rates of essential items and RBI to tighten purse strings. Potatoes, onions and pulses were the main elements driving food inflation north.     Data on Thursday showed prices went up nearly 2% in a week. Food inflation had stood at 17.47% for the week ended November 21. However, the overall wholesale price index-based inflation for the month ended October stood at 1.34%.     The RBI will review its easy monetary policy stance on January 29, although RBI governor D Subbarao has said WPI (wholesale price index) is “quite modest’’ compared to consumer prices.     “If inflationary pressure persists for a long time, it can fuel inflationary expectations and monetary policy will have to take a nuanced view on this,’’ he had said on Wednesday.     According to latest data, potatoes now cost more than double on an annual basis, while onions 23% more. Prices of other essential daily commodities like rice rose by 11.75%, wheat 12.6% and pulses by 42%. At the same time, fruits were costlier by 13% while milk was 11.36% more expensive.     Worried over the development, UPA chairperson Sonia Gandhi had described the issue as “a matter of highest concern’’. Sonia said she had spoken to the PM and the FM and they had assured her that “every possible step’’ will be taken to address the issue.
Inflation at 10-mth high of 4.78% Nov Increase Due To Rise In Food Prices, RBI May Tighten Monetary Policy TIMES NEWS NETWORK New Delhi: The rate of inflation shot up to a 10-month high of 4.78% during November, against just 1.34% in October, largely on account of rising food prices. This may prompt the Reserve Bank of India to change its monetary policy to tighten money supply, leading to a rise in interest rates.     Such a steep rise in the annual rate of inflation, based on whole sale price index, is mainly due to sharp rise in the prices of primary articles, including food items. While the index of primary articles rose by 11.8%, that of food items went up by a whopping 16.7%, according to the latest data released by the government on Monday for November. In fact, the weekly data released by the government on food items last Thursday shows that food inflation had shot up by 19.04% in the last week of November as against the same period last year.     The monthly data shows that potato prices have surged by a whopping 101% during the last one year, arhar by 64%, moong and urad by around 50%, and onion by 32%. On the other hand, minerals, edible oils and leather products have become cheaper since March 2009.     Finance minister Pranab Mukherjee attributed the 4.78% spurt in inflation in November to rising prices of food articles. "Inflation has risen high mainly because of the food article prices have gone up,'' Mukherjee said.     However, finance secretary Ashok Chawla said the rising price of commodities has always been a matter of concern for the government, and it has been taking administrative steps to contain inflation.     Chawla added that the latest inflation numbers are not surprising and does not call for any immediate emergency measures at this stage. "The fact that food inflation was high and that could reflect in the WPI was also known,'' he said, adding the government would see whether the rise in inflation was on account of the base effect or is a trend that is likely to continue.     The latest figures, economists feel will force RBI to take harsh measures like making money costly by increasing the interest rates to dampen the demands in the market. Suresh Tendulkar, former chairman of the Prime Minister's Economic Advisory Council (PMEAC), said that the Reserve Bank could take steps to withdraw liquidity to tame rising prices. The apex bank is slated to announce review of its annual credit policy next month.     The RBI, in its monetary policy review in October , had revised the inflation forecast to 6.5% by March-end from 5% earlier.     Economists feel that though tightening of money supply might not have direct impact on containing the food prices, by it will certainly help in containing the inflationary expectation in the market place. As there is a time lag between the monetary measures and its impact in the market place, a senior economists with a public sector bank said that the central bank may take a decision in this regard even before the review of the third quarter credit policy in January.
Food inflation at 19.95%, Pranab to raise imports TIMES NEWS NETWORK New Delhi: Food prices have hit a 10-yearhigh as supply shortages due to poor monsoon and floods in some parts finally bit hard, forcing a worried government to announce a step-up in imports and strengthening expectations of the RBI tightening policy to stop a breakout of inflation in the wider economy.     Prices of potato, other vegetables and pulses drove inflation to 19.95% in the year to December 5, surging from 19% in the previous week. The rise in food prices comes even as the economy is picking up strength after a dip in late 2008 and early 2009. This has sparked fears that the supply-side inflation could turn into demand-side inflation.     On an annual basis, potato prices zoomed 136% and pulses became costlier by over 40%. Onion prices rose 15.4%. Other food items that became costlier include wheat 14%, milk 13.6%, rice 12.7% and fruits 11%. “Food prices are going up and this is an area of concern... we have to take appropriate measures to see what best could be done by augmenting supply through imports,’’ finance minister Pranab Mukherjee told reporters. On November 24, Mukherjee had said the government could import rice to curb price rise, the first time in 20 years that India talked of such imports.     Mukherjee’s statement came even as a parliamentary committee criticised his ministry for not taking timely action to check price rise. Besides other things, the report of the standing committee on finance asked the government to amend the Essential Commodities Act to check hoarding and speculation. “The ministry of finance... has obviously failed to intervene timely and squarely address this burning issue (price rise) with due seriousness,’’ the report said.     Monthly price data for November showed maufacturing prices rose an annual 4%. Many saw this as a pointer to firms being able to pass on higher costs on the back of a robust recovery in the economy. The annual wholesale price inflation, which stood at 1.34% in October, rose to 4.78% in November. This has spurred analysts to predict an 8% inflation by the end of the fiscal, much higher than 6.5% forecast by RBI. Earlier this week, chairman of the PM’s Economic Advisory Council C Rangarajan had said by the end of March 2010, inflation could be close to 7%.
TOUGH TO DIGEST Restaurants set to increase prices Anshul Dhamija | TNN Bangalore: Ensure that your taste buds are not on overdrive mode, for restaurant bills are set to get dearer.     As the country’s food inflation rate scorches towards 20%, restaurants of all hues are cooking up a pricier menu.     While some restaurants like KFC, part of Yum! Restaurants International, have already increased prices by 3% to 4% from December 1, other casual and fine dining restaurants are looking at 5% to 10% increase come January, 2010. Dominos Pizza is another chain that has marginally increased its prices.     Anjan Chatterjee led-Specialty Restaurant, which runs brands such as Mainland China, Oh! Calcutta, and Sigree, is looking at increasing prices by 2% to 3% in January.     Bangalore-based Nandhini Palace chain of restaurants has seen a 14%- 16% rise in food costs in the past couple of months, and some of that will be passed on to consumers. Says Mahesh, business development manager of the chain, “We are thinking of a 5% to 10% increase in prices in January.”     The reason for delaying the hike to January is that no restaurateur wants to upset the upbeat mood of the ongoing year-end festive season. Restaurants are only now seeing a surge in business, as consumers had literally retreated to their homes over the past one-year, as part of austerity measures.     Even the local darshinis— a type of vegetarian fast food restaurant found in Bangalore and other parts of South India— are contemplating a 5% to 10% price hike in January. They’d raised prices by Re 1 to Rs 3 in the past couple of months. Shyam Raju, honorary joint secretary, Federation of Hotel and Restaurant Associations of India, said that darshinis had been absorbing most of the price rise in food materials like rice and dal, on account of the recessionary environment. “This has become unsustainable now,” he said.     The monthly data released by the central government on food items shows that potato prices surged 101% during the past year, tur/ arhar by 64%, moong and urad by 50%, and onion by 32%.     Traditionally, for an annual food price inflation of 12% to 13%, restaurants undertake an annual price revision of 1% to 2% to offset the rise in costs. Amit Jatia, MD of Hardcastle Restaurants, which runs McDonald’s operations in west and south India, says the company is keeping a close watch on the situation, but ruled out any price hike for the moment. However, there are reports of McDonald’s franchisee in north and east India talking of a 5% to 10% price hike in the near term.     Pizza Hut, also part of Yum! Restaurants, says it would look at a price rise similar to that of its competitors, but would incorporate it only in March next year. “The softening of rental rates by 15% to 20% in new store locations has helped in offsetting some of the cost pressures we are facing,” says a senior Pizza Hut official.
TIMES FOOD GUIDE CHIMICHANGAS, TACOS AND BURRITOS FOR YOU! Rashmi Uday Singh     I’m sending you mishti, magical, merry Christmas wishes from Kolkatta. Here time stands still as I pamper all my senses. Christmas trees twinkle in the cool night air as Park street decks herself breathlessly and New Market festoons with lights and cacophony. Complex and multi-layered flavours of the elegant Bengali cuisine implode with haunting intensity. Again and again. I’ve spent all my childhood Christmases here and each time it gets more magical. I write from the elegant high-ceilinged heritage Oberoi Grand, which has seen more than a century of glamourous Christmases and is symbiotically woven into the handloom of this large hearted gourmet city. I get high on the Thai fare here as much as on the sense of being a part of history. I feast on the delicately steamed Hilsa and gorge on the succulent melting Koshe Mangsho with as much delight as the seasonal Notun Gur which transforms the sublime Sandesh into a divine star. All in keeping with the spirit of Christmas. In Oh! Calcutta, of course.     And just before I leave Mumbai, I go on one more of my cherished blind dates with my readers. Dapper Arjun Dhinsa guides me to his favourite Mexican mecca in Mumbai. Having managed swanky restaurants in Singapore for two years, Arjun sure knows his onions. He takes time off from studying for his GMAT to lunch with me. As does the talented Chocolatier mother daughter team of Varsha and Deepa Mani and their niece Abhilasha who is studying for her B Com.     Varun Bangera brings to the table his foodie palate and real estate acumen. Our tried and tasted opinion… Sammy Sosa ‘Once upon a time in Mexico’ announces the writing on the ceiling of this cheery, bright, colourful, twin-levelled Andheri eatery. Tex-Mex and some basic Continental and sandwiches kind of fare here. Welcome to Oshiwara’s (and Mumbai’s only) dedicated Mexican eatery, which is open through the day. Tex-Mex, however, takes the centre stage here as Chimichangas, whacko Tacos, Burritos, Fajitas are served by waiters in cowboy hats. Enchiladas too. Heaps of melted cheese, beans, Guacamole and Tomato Salsa do the rounds. And to go with it they offer a huge range of beers (especially the German Hoegarten) wines and cocktails. While the Nachos Chicos are somewhat soggy, the chicken dishes (Ranchero and Loco Stuffo) are generously marinated and grilled to perfection and served on a bed of Mexican rice. Charmula Prawns (somewhat overcooked) are served on a skewer but are tasty. Ditto for the Mexi Chilli Lamb. The Pan-grilled Pomfret passes muster. End with the Mud Pie with Icecream. It’s the best of the rest (Gooey Chocolate, Apple Crumble, Blueberry Cheesecake). Meal for two at Rs 900. A fun, casual young experience. DEEPA AND VARSHA MANI What started as a hobby has turned into a profession for the talented and hardworking Deepa Mani. She makes a vast variety of flavours of chocolates under the brand name Caramelo. From plain chocolate to Grand affair (butterscotch with hazelnuts). Her almond cluster and Oreoholics are worth trying too. Prices range from Rs 500 per kg to Rs 900 per kg (Love at first bite). Ph: 9821647869. Her mother, Varsha makes delectable cakes and brownies in Kandivili. Ph: 9769902023.     SAMMY SOSA Shop No. 18, Mira Housing Society, Oshiwara, Andheri (W), Mumbai, Ph: 65278722/44 Noon to Midnight Food 3.75 Service 3.25 Décor 3.25
A glimpse of the Scotland of India Land of coffee and spices, and rich in gallant tales of generals of Indian army, Madikeri offers a great retreat for our souls to heal from the city’s hectic life, finds Mani D’Mello     Around three hours from Mangalore by road lands you straight at the doorway of Madikeri, in Kodagu (Coorg) district, which is one of the most picturesque hill stations in the South. Madikeri whose anglicised name is Mercarra is known as the Scotland of India, and the land of coffee and species, where gallant soldiers and decorated generals of the Indian army hail from.     A brief halt at Sullya, which is located at the foothill of Kodagu is highly recommended because feasting on the delicious Mysore bondas (oval shaped medu vadas) in steaming hot and tangy sambar and filter coffee is an awesome experience before your vehicle descends the hills of Kodagu. It is a thrill to watch the cook draped in a moondoo (white dhoti) mixing the conconcotion of piping hot coffee in a medium-size brass mug with hot milk placed in a similar mug, swinging the mugs rhythmically up and down in rapid succession, till the brew turns frothy and ready to serve. It is a traditional way coffee and tea is served in small eateries in Mangalore and Udipi.     Even in the hot summers, the road journey up the hills is pleasant as the temperature keeps dipping while you descend to the higher reaches of Madikeri town, which is perched 1,166 metres above sea level. The town’s square continues to retain its semi-rustic ambience, with evergreen hills in the distant background and coffee plantations at their foothills.     Evening is the best time to visit the town mall to see the young and athletic bodied Coorgi (Kodavas) men dressed in smart blazers and the young ladies draped in sarees in the traditional Coorgi style who catch up with friends. At this time, watering holes are buzzing with coffee planters, both Coorgis and locals from the surround plains in Karnataka, sipping shots of rum mixed with either cola or water and discussing the current trend in sale and dipping prices of coffee and species. Coorgis, are basically of a warrior lineage and belonged to the gentry class.     Putting up at a coffee estate is a wonderful feeling when the serenity of the night is broken with occasional animal calls in the wild. Chicken barbeques in the courtyard of these exquisitely designed bungalows of coffee planters is a romantic experience for weary citydwellers.     Coorg, is a paradise, especially in the winters when the cool mist passes through the windows of your bedroom window in the coffee estate and early birds chirping and communicating with each other like a gossiping scene in a rural market place.     If one chooses to laze around till early evening after a meal of appam in chicken gravy, rasam, mutton sukka, farm fresh mushroom sabji cooked with onion and lightly fried in oil and unpolished rice, choose to spend the latter part of the evening at Abbey falls, located around seven kilometres from the town’s square. One must not miss an opportunity to get drenched under the gushing water falling from a height of over 50 feet at Abbey falls. Getting drenched below the water falls rejuvenates the body and has a soothing effect on the mind. At certain points where the water follows to the source of the river Cauvery, one can enjoy a refreshing swim too.     Coorg, is a delight for trekkers as the forest covers 32.7 per cent of the area. The gushing streams in the evergreen terrain is a scenic landscape in the Western Ghats. The smaller rivers-Harangi, Hemavathi, Barapole, LakshmanaTheertha and Kumaradhara, weave through the base of a number of breathtaking ranges located in and around these water bodies. Around eight per cent of floral diversity of India is housed in Coorg.     There are chances that one could encounter or come face-to-face with animals in the wild. Common sightings are wild boars, Indian gaur, Sambar, Four Horned Antelope, Spotted Deer, Leopard Cat, Small Indian Civet, birds and reptiles.     A visit to the Nagarhole National Park, located less than 80 kilometres from Madikeri, which is also rich in flora and fauna and a part of the biosphere, is rewarding. But one needs to leave for this forest reserve early in the morning and return before the guards seal the highway for the night, unless one decides to spend the night at one of the resorts bordering the forest. Some of the other small wildlife sanctuaries where trekkers and wildlife photographers could spend time listening to the enchanting calls of animals and birds and watching them shying away when sighted are Tala Cauvery, Pushpagiri and Brahmagiri. These sanctuaries are all located within a radius of 75 kilometres from Madikeri. Distance from Madikeri Bangalore- 256 kms, Mysore-120kms, Mangalore-136 kms, Hassan-115kms, Tellichery- 110 kms, Cannanore-110 kms and Calicut-180kms. Must visits Omkareshwara Temple It was built by the Lingarajendra II in1820 in the combination of Catholic, Keralite, Gothic and Islamic styles of Architecture. Madikeri fort This fort, with its imposing structure crowns the entire town. The Madikeri palace is located inside the fort and was built by the Lingarajendra Wodeyar II. The Veerabhadra Temple inside it was removed by the British and replaced by an Anglian Church, which is now converted to Museum.. The British renovated the structure twice and in 1933 added a clock tower and a portico. Raja’s Seat This is the spot from where the kings watched the sunsets with their consorts and is the most scenic sport in South India. It offers breathtaking view of towering hills, green valleys, studded with paddy fields. The most fascinating view is the road to Mangalore like a curved ribbon lying in the valley. Raja’s Tomb     This is one of the important monuments in Coorg. The royal tombs provide a commanding view of the town and are in the Islamic style with the domes in center and turrets at the angles.     mani.dmello@timesgroup.com 
Winter prices put colour back on plates Bella Jaisinghani & Vijay Singh | TNN Mumbai: The winter chill has restored a pleasant warmth to household kitchens by bringing an abundant supply of vegetables and greens. Dining tables are slowly losing the pallor of the last few months and regaining colour as retail prices attain normalcy levels after a bizarre six-month interlude.     Pulses, onion and potato continue to remain in the red zone but other vegetables like tomato, green peas, french beans, cauliflower and greens which had become a source of distress to housewives trying to work around their steep prices, now appear less frightful. On Sunday, the cost of common vegetables in retail markets ranged from Rs 16-24 per kg.     Wholesale rates at APMC market in Vashi have dropped considerably due to a healthy inflow of produce from outside Maharashtra, leading to a positive reduction in retail costs. Shankar Pingle, a traders’ representative of the APMC vegetable wholesellers said, “Since December 1, we are getting 70% of vegetables from outside Maharashtra, such as Gujarat, Delhi and Rajasthan. The abundant arrivals are having a positive effect on prices which are much lower this month than they have been for many months now.’’     Pingle said 530 trucks and tempos laden with vegetables entered APMC market on Monday, a “good number’’ for Mumbai zone. Tomatoes that earlier cost Rs 16-20 per kg in the wholesale market now stand at Rs 9-10 per kg.     Coriander and methi at Rs 8-10 per bundle four weeks ago, are now Rs 1-3 per bundle while green peas that sold for Rs 24-26 per kg in November now cost Rs 16-20 per kg in APMC.     The first sign that the tide was turning came early December when lemons that were being sold for a snooty Rs 5 apiece suddenly dropped to Rs 10 for six. Since then, the correction has been visible in vegetable markets across the city. Andheri municipal market on Sunday sold tomato, cabbage and brinjal for Rs 16 per kg while a healthy consignment of green peas was being sold for Rs 30 per kg. Cauliflower also appeared amenable at Rs 24 per kg.     Yet, other staples like onion and potato without which no Indian meal is complete, remain a cause for concern as prices hover around Rs 22-24 per kg. After all these are mainly grown within Maharashtra where Cyclone Phyan and unseasonal rain caused extensive damage.     Retailers in Andheri pointed out that the market stands on a cusp: the old crop of potato is nearly over while the new one is yet to arrive. “Poor quality onions from Pune are the mainstay now for the Nashik crop was destroyed by Phyan and a hailstorm 10 days later,’’ said retailer N Chandrakumar. “We hope the new crop that is due next month will improve the situation,’’ said Ashok Valunj of APMC.     Sellers of meat and poultry, meanwhile, were not off the mark when they said that prices of nonvegetarian items would continue to remain high during the festive season spanning Christmas and new year.     Eggs sold for Rs 36 per dozen in the retail market Monday while chicken had spiralled to Rs 90 per kg, said Ayaz of Bandra’s Aziz Broiler.     Mutton was selling for Rs 220 per kg, said Lokhandwala retailer Salman Adam, its cost unchanged over many weeks.     With neither expecting rates of non-vegetarian items to fall anytime soon, it appears as if the customary equation of vegetarian food being a cheaper option will soon be restored.
Cold comfort: Veggie prices dip in city Bella Jaisinghani and Vijay Singh | TNN Mumbai: The year-end has brought some cheer to starving kitchens. The recent dip in temperatures and an influx of vegetables from neighbouring states have helped ease prices in wholesale and retail markets, bringing welcome relief from the scorching inflation of the last six months.     Although items like pulses, chillies, meats, onion and potato remain costly as ever, green vegetables are slowly making their way back to dinner tables. On Sunday, for instance, prices of most vegetables in retail markets ranged from Rs 16-24 per kg.     Wholesale rates at the APMC market in Vashi have dropped considerably due to a healthy inflow of produce from outside Maharashtra, with 70% of vegetables coming from Delhi, Gujarat and Rajasthan since December.     Tomatoes are at Rs 9-10 per kg from Rs 16-20 per kg in the wholesale market, dhania and methi are Rs 1-3 per bundle from Rs 8-10 per bundle four weeks ago and lemons, which went for a princely Rs 5 per piece early this month, now sell for Rs 10 for six. And people are flocking to buy. The Andheri municipal market for instance witnessed more crowds on Sunday than in recent times, said shopkeepers.
HEAVY ON POCKET Potato, pulse prices drive food inflation to 19.8% TIMES NEWS NETWORK New Delhi: After easing a bit in the previous week, food inflation was back to near-20% levels in the third week of December as items such as potatoes and pulses continued to belie hopes of sustained relief over prices of essential commodities.     The wholesale price-based index of food articles rose by 1.18% for the week ended December 19 from 18.65% a week ago. One week before that, food inflation had stood at the decade's highest level of 19.95%.     The rise in food prices is mainly due to dearer essential items like potatoes, onions, pulses etc. Potato price more than doubled while pulses became costlier by over 41% over the last one year. Onion rose by 40.75%. Besides potatoes, onions and pulses, rice rose by 12.95%, wheat by 12.66%, milk by 13.61% and fruits by 10.35% on a yearly basis.     Average food inflation so far stood at 12% as on December 19, while inflation of primary articles (non-processed items), including food, stood at 15.49%. Prices of fuel, power, light and lubricants rose at a rate of 4.45% during the week ended December 19 from 3.94% a week ago. This is despite the fact that cooking gas prices declined by 7.42%, petrol by 2.18% and high speed diesel by 0.19%.     Analysts say there is still a risk of high food prices and the RBI could take monetary tightening measures to moderate it. The RBI will come out with its third quarter review of the monetary policy on January 29. According to the PM's economic advisory panel, the overall inflation is likely to cross RBI’s estimate of 6.5% and it may have to take monetary action to tame it. “By the end of March 2010, inflation could be close to 7%,” council chairman C Rangarajan had said recently.
Food inflation alarming: Cong Bhaskar Roy | TNN New Delhi: With food inflation touching almost 20% — one of the highest in the developing world — the UPA leadership has woken up to work out drastic measures to control it. The Congress, which swept the 1998 Delhi assembly elections on the crest of soaring onion prices, should know more about the price of shooting sugar prices.     “We admit rise in prices of some essential commodities is disquieting,” party spokesman Abhishek Singhvi said. “Congress is taking the strongest possible cognizance of the situation.” He, however, said the turomoil in the bazaar was caused by upward movement of only a few items.     The party leadership is waking up to the danger of popular discontent because of runaway prices.     The party’s in-house experts calculate that the price volatility has been the fastest in the past 11 years. What worries them most is the prospect of food inflation upsetting NREGA’s positive impact. At this rate, the modest decline in poverty in 2005 will get neutralised.     Though the situation in India is not as bad as in about a dozen Asian, African and Latin American countries which saw violent street protests, party chief Sonia Gandhi has conveyed to PM Manmohan Singh the need for immediate action.     Government officials partly attribute the bad situation to a sharp decline in the world wheat production in recent years — by nearly 30 million tonnes.
Do-it-yourself India Jug Suraiya     India is increasingly a do-it-yourself country. And the government of India should give a medal to the residents of Tajnagar village, near Gurgaon, for setting a new benchmark in the DIY (do-ityourself) scheme of things. Having waited a quarter of a century in vain to get their own railway station from a sarkar that seemed deaf to all their pleas, the enterprising Tajnagaris had a whip around among themselves, raised Rs 21 lakh, and set up their own railway station, certainly the first DIY railway station in India, if not in the world.     God is said to help those who help themselves. Our sarkar goes one better than God: it doesn’t even help those who help themselves, but implicitly urges them to continue the good work and keep helping themselves some more because – as sure as eggs is eggs – the sarkar certainly ain’t going to help anyone.     In that way our sarkar is eminently fair, and does not discriminate on the basis of caste, creed or gender. It leaves us all – irrespective of particular persuasion – to help ourselves to whatever it is that we think we require.     You want an uninterrupted supply of bijli? Fine, it’s not an unreasonable request. But don’t look to the sarkar, or any of its many agencies, to generate it for you; you’ve got to do it yourself. Get a genset. Or a kerosene lantern and a handheld pankha. What? No kerosene available in the government-run fair price shops? Haven’t you ever heard of a do-it-yourself source of supply for kerosene – or for that matter for anything else you might require, like potatoes, and onions, and dal and rice – which is called the black market?     No municipal water to be had? Stop bellyaching and get on with the job of digging a community bore well in your area. Set up a rain harvesting system. Push comes to shove, buy bottled water. To drink? No, dummy. To bathe in. It’s either that or don’t take off your clothes before sending them to the drycleaners.     Government hospitals and healthcare centres either non-existent or full of rats, disease and infections? Go to a private – read, do-it-yourself – nursing home. What do you mean you can’t afford it? Of course you can. What do you think do-it-yourself medical insurance is for, for which you have to pay those humongous annual premiums?     There are no textbooks, blackboards or teachers at your local sarkari school? Send your kid to a school set up by a do-it-yourself entrepreneur who charges swingeing fees for the services provided. Almost everything in India is on a do-it-yourself basis. Electricity, water, health, schooling. With the virtual collapse of the governmental postal system, the sarkari postman has become an endangered, if not a nearextinct, species, spotted only at Diwali time when he rings your doorbell to collect his yearly baksheesh. The rest of the time you deal with a do-it-yourself delivery system called a courier company.     Rising incidence of crime in your neighbourhood and the cops unable, or unwilling, or both, to do anything about it? Employ do-it-yourself security guards to protect your property and your person. In some parts of the country you have not just do-it-yourself cops but do-ityourself armies, like the Ranvir Sena, or the Salwa Judum. And to provide competition to these, you have another do-ityourself army called the Naxalites, who are said to run a parallel do-it-yourself state-within-a-state in over 160 districts across the country.     Each day, in every way, India’s do-ityourself capacity increases, as exemplified by the resourceful villagers of Tajnagar who got themselves their own DIY railway station, thus relieving railway minister Mamatadi of an onerous chore. The sarkar should recognise and honour such doit-yourself enterprise. The residents of Tajnagar deserve a medal for the DIY spirit they’ve shown. Trouble is, the medal will also have to be of the DIY variety, because the sarkar can’t supply even that.     secondopinion@timesgroup.com http://blogs.timesofindia.indiatimes.com/     jugglebandhi/ 
PM steps in, food prices may fall in a week’s time TIMES NEWS NETWORK New Delhi: Hit by soaring food inflation, the government moved into urgent damage-control mode on Wednesday with Prime Minister Manmohan Singh stepping into the frame and deciding to meet chief ministers to urge stronger anti-hoarding measures and improved lifting and distribution of foodgrains. The Centre plans to quickly release 2-3 million tonnes of wheat and rice into the retail market using its own agencies like NAFED and NCCF in addition to PDS outlets. This stock will cost more than PDS grain, but will help cool down retail rates. Subsidies under a scheme for cheaper edible oil may be increased too.     Agriculture minister Sharad Pawar,who has drawn much flak for the price rise, faced the media after a meeting of the cabinet committee on prices and expressed confidence that prices would begin to moderate in a week to 10 days. Thought For Food Centre to release 2-3 million tonnes of wheat and rice into retail market Subsidy on imported edible oil may be increased PM to meet CMs around Jan 27; likely to call for tough steps against speculators and review of foodgrain release system UP millers will be allowed to process imported raw sugar outside the state Zero import duty on white sugar till end of year UP millers can process imported sugar outside New Delhi: Agriculture minister Sharad Pawar on Wednesday said he expected food prices to cool down soon, but he also pointed to the sharp escalation between the wholesale mandis and retailers. “In Delhi, potatoes are a little under Rs 5 a kg but cost Rs 11 a kg at sale points,’’ he said. Similar, he said, was the case with onions, dals and groundnut oil.     With regard to sugar prices, which sent the government into a tizzy as they approached Rs 50 a kg, the government has decided to allow UP millers to process imported raw sugar outside the state. This would get around UP CM Mayawati’s objections to mills in the state—who hold most of the imported raw sugar—processing the product.     The agriculture ministry is also calling a meeting of those who have imported raw sugar which is lying in ports like Kandla and millers’ associations of Maharashtra and Gujarat to try and ensure that processing prices are not set too high. The fear is that UP millers may be in a weak bargaining position as they have stocks to move out of ports and storages.     Pawar said he felt Mayawati’s stand was a factor behind the added strain on the fragile demand-supply situation with regard to sugar. The government has reduced import duty on ‘white sugar’ to zero till the end of the year. Presenting his defence, the minister said there was enough wheat and rice stock. He stated that states had lifted only 1.59 lakh tonnes of wheat against 10 lakh tonnes available and 2.9 lakh tonnes of rice as against an allotted 5 lakh tonnes.     With the ruling coalition feeling the political heat as the UPA lead player, the Congress, itself made its concerns very audible and the opposition BJP also upped the stakes, the CCP chaired by the PM considered a set of options shortlisted by the PMO. Pawar had also worked hard—his aides said the minister had called for briefings almost every hour through Tuesday.     On pulses, another food item that has become dearer, Pawar said state governments had been urged to make use of a scheme to distribute imported pulses at a subsidy of Rs 10 a kg. Public sector trading agencies have been asked to tap all possible sources to import pulses which were proving out of reach for the aam aadmi.     While increasing the availability of sugar would help bring down prices—Pawar said this had happened over Tuesday and Wednesday—higher prices paid to sugarcane farmers, the cost of milling and market mark up may not see it cost anything less than Rs 40 a kg. It was felt that increasing supplies during the festive season had kept prices in check in October-November 2009, but inhibited imports while raw sugar wasn’t processed.     Meanwhile, the Centre will move to more closely monitor the smuggling of sugarcane and sugar to Nepal as has been reported. States are being urged to waive VAT and other taxes as has been done by Delhi. Congress asks states to crack down on hoarders     Setting the tone for the PM’s meeting with CMs on the alarming rise of food prices, the Congress on Wednesday pointed to the ‘big role’ the states would have to play in holding the price line. “State governments need to get their act together and take stringent action against hoarders,” party spokesman Manish Tiwari said. The Congress concern over inflation has been underlined by Sonia Gandhi’s recent letter to the PM stating the need for drastic steps. TNN
Inflation touches 12-month high of 7.3% Prices Of Pulses, Sugar & Potato Drive Up Index, RBI May Tighten Monetary Policy TIMES NEWS NETWORK New Delhi: A day after agriculture minister Sharad Pawar said the prices of daily essentials would come down in 10 days, government data on Thursday pegged wholesale pricedbased inflation at 7.3% in December, the highest in more than a year and marking a jump of nearly 3% over November.     The latest figure — driven up mainly by sugar, pulses and potato — added to the government’s worries over price rise and will push back any effort to free motor fuel prices.     The numbers also reinforced the expectation of a tighter monetary policy from the RBI as it beat the central bank’s forecast of wholesale inflation topping 6% only by the end of the fiscal. The last time wholesale inflation exceeded the December level was in November 2008 when it had reached 8%.     According to Sonal Varma of Nomura Global Economics, a research firm, at the current pace, inflation is likely to rise above 8% in January and inch closer to double-digits by March.     Also, data released at Decemberend showed that consumer pricebased inflation accelerated to 13.5% in November 2009 from 11.5%.     A ray of hope, however, came from weekly food inflation that eased a tad to 17.28% in the week ended January 2 from 18.22% a week ago but pulses, potatoes and onions remained expensive. Despite signs of cooling off, overall data does not allow for slack and point towards a deepening food inflation threatening to spill over into the wider economy.     The prices of processed food items, for example, rose 26.40% in December and non-processed food items turned expensive by 19.17%. Potatoes rose over 70% during the week ended January 2, onions and pulses over 45% each and cereals by over 14%.     “Week-on-week it (food inflation) is down, which is a very good (sign). There are a whole lot of measures that we are going through that have been decided on,” chief economic advisor Kaushik Basu said. Earlier, Planning Commission deputy chairman Montek Singh Ahluwalia had also said that food inflation would ease next month as fear of negative impact of poor monsoon on farm produce has eased.     To increase the availability of sugar, the government on Wednesday relaxed norms for processing raw sugar and allowed duty-free import of white sugar till Decemberend. A host of decisions, including selling 2-3 million tonnes of wheat and rice in the open market over the next two months and asking stateowned trading firms to intensify import of pulses, was taken at a meeting of the Cabinet Committee on Prices chaired by prime minister Manmohan Singh on Wednesday. Rate Spiral Inflation beat RBI’s forecast of wholesale inflation topping 6% only by the end of the fiscal The last time WPI exceeded the Dec level was in Nov 2008 when it had reached 8%
Retailers plan R-Day bonanza Rupali Mukherjee | TNN New Delhi: Consumers reeling under inflationary pressure can expect some relief on their daily consumption basket with major retail chains planning to offer attractive deals and huge discounts on essentials like food and clothing, and others like high-value consumer durables, appliances and home care products around the Republic Day. Food inflation is hovering over 17%, mainly due to increase in prices of pulses, sugar, onions and potatoes.     Large retailers like Big Bazaar, part of the Future group, have planned a major shopping event (Sabse Saste Din) around Republic Day, a holiday for most of the country, to entice consumers, who otherwise shopped only during festivals like Diwali or special occasions like weddings.     It will be the fifth such shopping festival this year and is expected to boost sales by 25-30% over last year’s revenues of nearly Rs 200 crore registered during this event alone.     “Shopping festivals like this spur customers to make aspirational purchases, buy discretionary products and try out new products (like snack foods, beanbags, etc) thanks to great deals (this year) offered on 300-400 products, along with discounts on durables and appliances ranging from 5-35% during these days,’’ says Sadashiv Nayak, president, Big Bazaar     For instance, a couple of years back, 80,000 DVD players were sold over the three-day shopping event at a marked down price of Rs 4,000, and last year, people flocked to buy 22,000 food combos (5 kg each of rice, edible oil and sugar) at Rs 599. By offering huge discounts and deals on these products, retailers like Big Bazaar and Reliance Retail have also become ‘price warriors’ in certain categories like durables, electronics and even clothes.     Retailers can expect sales to go up by three to four folds during these festivals, which are generally planned around weekends, along with a huge spike in footfall. For example, during the ‘Sabse Saste Din’ last year, 55 lakh customers visited Big Bazaar stores across 70 cities, an increase of footfall by four to six times, while sales quadrupled and touched nearly Rs 200 crore. So, this format is beneficial for for both customers and retailers.     Agrees, a Spencer’s Retail official: “We research on the consumers’ shopping habbits on specific occasions and plan the promos in a manner that they fit the shopping requirement of the consumers, ensure ‘value for money’, induce additional purchases which in turn boost our average bill value for us. Hence, it is a winwin situation for both the consumers and the retailers.”
CABINET DECISIONS Govt eases price pinch for poor Food Inflation Slides But Essential Items Get Dearer New Delhi: Faced with rising food prices, the government moved to buffer the poor beyond their PDS allocations by deciding to supply an additional 10 kg of wheat and rice to beneficiary families over the next two months. This is above the 35 kg of wheat and rice supplied to BPL families.     The move will also address the Centre’s frustration with states that have refused to lift foodgrain under the open market scheme. The stepped-up allocations are expected to work in tandem with direct sales through agencies like NAFED.     There was some marginal relief for the government with food inflation sliding for the third week in a row with the week ending January 9 logging 16.81%. But prices of essential items of daily consumption continued to get dearer. Despite the decrease, food inflation is higher than 11.59% in the comparative period last year.     A week earlier, food inflation was pegged at 17.28%. On a year-on-year basis, prices of potatoes are higher by 50% and pulses dearer by almost 48%. Cereal prices were up 14.18%, with wheat rising nearly 15% and rice 12.64%. Similarly, milk prices are 13.95% higher than a year ago and are expected to rise further, while onion prices have risen by over 15% and vegetables by 7.95%.     Even though some economists see food inflation softening in the weeks ahead to soothe the overall inflation, chief statistician Pronab Sen expects wholesale price-based inflation to rise to 9% by March-end from over 7% in December. On the other hand, Suresh Tendulkar, who heads the PM’s economic advisory council, said, “I expect the easing (of food inflation) to continue. There would be impact on other prices also and the general inflation level.” Model degree colleges in backward areas: In other cabinet decisions, the government has approved central aid for setting up a model degree college each in 374 educationally backward districts where gross enrolment ratio (GER) for higher education is less than the national GER. Two-fold jump in science scholarships: The number of Junior Research Fellowship (JRF) through the National Eligibility Test has been increased. While about 6,000 students could avail of the scholarship during the 10th plan, there would be a two-fold rise in the 11th plan. Nod for rural devpt project: The implementation of the “Provision of Urban Amenities in Rural Areas” scheme on a pilot basis got the government nod with an outlay of Rs 248 crore. High speed data network: The government has also approved establishment of the National Knowledge Network that would connect all knowledge institutions through a high-speed data network. TNN
J U G U L A R V E I N Paisa vasool Jug Suraiya     Inflation? Forget it. Never mind that prices – particularly food prices – have gone not just through the roof but through all future roof rights on that benighted roof. Never mind that onions have become the new pearls, tomatoes the new rubies, and potatoes the new diamonds. Never mind that unscrupulous racketeers are busy adulterating arhar dal with gold dust, and parmal rice with platinum filings. Never mind all that irrelevant stuff. There is still one product – some would say the most important product of this country – which has beaten inflation not only hands down but arms, legs and feet down as well.     A couple of weeks ago i spotted an advertising hoarding announcing this product. Which was on sale for one paisa. One whatdidhesay? Paisa? What’s that? An entire generation of Indians has grown up for whom a paisa is not even a race memory. They’ve never known of its existence, and on encountering the word might well surmise it to mean some new kind of pasta, like penne, but different, or maybe that ancient old Guru Dutt movie, Pyasa, but misspelt.     I don’t blame them. I’m pretty ancient, at least as ancient as Pyasa, and i can barely remember the paisa, the one-hundredth unit of a rupee. I can’t remember when i last saw one, let alone trying to buy something with one. They probably stopped making the paisa years ago, when some boffin in the sarkari mint figured out that the copper used in the making of the coin was probably worth several times more than the paisa was.     And what was the paisa worth, in terms of purchasing power? What could you buy with it, what could you buy with one single paisa? Absolute zilch, so far as i could make out. Presumably, just presumably mind, you might on a good day and if the wind was blowing in the right direction induce someone to sell you a matchstick for one paisa. One matchstick. With no matchbox to go with it. So what were you going to do with your one matchstick? How were you going to light it? You could of course ask to borrow someone else’s matchbox, perhaps that of the person who sold you the one matchstick. But this might make you seem like a cheapskate. Like you were the sort of person who’d borrow someone else’s comb to comb your own hair with, or someone else’s hanky you blow your nose into and then return to the person you’d borrowed it from. Icky.     Of course you could use your single matchstick to pick your teeth with. But if all you could afford to buy was one matchstick, the chances were pretty slim that you’d have anything between your teeth which needed picking out anyway.     I was still trying to digest this (food prices being what they are, my digestive system has grown cobwebs) when i saw another advertising hoarding. And this one was selling the same product as the first hoarding but was selling it for half a paisa. Half a paisa? How the heck did you halve a paisa? With a cleaver? By biting it between your teeth? And what could a halved paisa fetch you?     Half a single matchstick? And how would the matchstick be halved? Vertically or horizontally? In either case it would be pretty useless for anything. Even for picking teeth.     So what was this product that these hoardings were touting at one paisa and half a paisa respectively? Yes, the product in question was our GDP: our Greatest Domestic Product. Talk. The hoardings were advertising talk time on a cellphone service at one paisa per second and half a paisa per second.     It figures. All pricing is a question of demand and supply. Food is in great demand and in short supply, so food prices are high. Talk is in great supply and in short demand, so the price of talk is low. And where did we learn to talk so much? From our netas of course: We shall eradicate poverty, we shall control inflation, we shall grow at 7.5 per cent this year, we shall blah, blah, blah, blah, blah.     Never mind passing the buck. That’s how we pass the buk-buk.
‘Pawar is cricket minister’ BJP Chief Hits Out At Agriculture Minister For Price Rise TIMES NEWS NETWORK New Delhi: Taking to the capital’s streets for the first time since he became the BJP chief, Nitin Gadkari took on agriculture minister Sharad Pawar on Wednesday, protesting against rising prices.     With the BJP planning to raise the price rise issue during the budget session of Parliament later this month, Gadkari hit out at Pawar with a straight bat, calling him a “cricket minister” and not an agriculture minister that he is supposed to be.     “Prices are rising and our agriculture minister is not concerned. He is concerned about IPL matches. I don’t know whether he is the civil supplies and food minister or the cricket minister. The prime minister should appoint him as cricket minister,” Gadkari said in an obvious reference to Pawar’s visit to Shiv Sena chief Bal Thackeray, urging him not to disrupt IPL matches.     Using cricketing terms to lash out at Pawar, Gadkari said, “Price rise is like a one-day match. The price of sugar has crossed half-century while price of dal has crossed the century mark. Pawar is the coach of the team.”     Accusing the UPA government of presiding over a Rs 2.8 lakh crore “big scandal” by allowing commodity exchange, Gadkari said the government was snatching food from the mouth of the poor. He invited “all parties” to fight “shoulder to shoulder” against the government on the price rise issue.     Gadkari said the party would intensify the fight against UPA on the issue with a gherao of Parliament on February 22 when the budget session starts.     Announcing a nation-wide agitation, Gadkari said 25 lakh people would reach the Capital on February 22 to protest against the government. “Today’s protest is just a trailer and the film is still to end. If this situation continues, it will be difficult for UPA ministers to travel on road. We will ensure that,” he said. Addressing protesters, Leader of Opposition in Lok Sabha Sushma Swaraj said, “Rise in onion prices cost BJP the government in Delhi in 1998. I was the chief minister then. It brings tears to my eyes whenever I think about onions. Now everything is very costly and people should not take it lightly.” She added, “Whenever Congress comes to power, they break the common man. They bring the ‘bhoot’ (ghost) of price rise with them.”
Mandi & More Stock @ fresh prices Vashi’s Mafco Market makes you believe that inflation stories are exaggerated reports, finds Indira Rodericks     It might not exactly be an around-the-corner market for everyone, but the Mafco market at Vashi, that retails fruit and vegetables at wholesale prices, is the perfect place to stock up. The structure were this market resides was built 30 years ago. For the last 15 years it was the onion and potato market, till that shifted a short distance away. Once the wholesale APMC Market was established, the retail wing opened here. This rather large market houses everything you need for your kitchen. Mood at Mafco Unlike other markets we’ve visited, we found this place to be relatively clean, the vegetables neatly laid out, heaped in piles or in sacks. Bustling with housewives and a sprinkling of small restaurant owners, most locals said that the pricing at the market remains its plus point. The vendors buy their goods from the wholesale market and retail it here, with very little margin for profit. Best buys With the weather still chilly, much of the wintergreens are still in season. There were piles of fresh green peas (Rs 18 a kg), leafy spinach and mustard (Rs 2 a bunch), red juicy carrots (Rs 20 a kg), plump and ripe tomatoes (Rs 16 a kg), potatoes both the new and old variety (Rs 18 and Rs 16 respectively), baby potatoes (Rs 20 a kg) onions (Rs 20 a kg), green raw mangoes (Rs 80 a kg) plus heaps and heaps of lady finger, French beans, broad beans, snake gourd, bitter gourd, cabbages, beetroot, brinjals, cauliflowers, drumsticks, cucumbers all priced between Rs 15 and Rs 30 per kg. Juicy bites The last row at the market had a sprinkling of fruit sellers., not many but the few that were there had quite a selection of fruits. The black and green grapes that are in season, pears, oranges, red and green apples, those lovely thin skinned sweet limes, dark red pomegranates, juicy pineapples, tangy kiwis and bunches of green and yellow bananas. Watch out A rather interesting part of this market is that not all vendors offer the same price, and bargaining is big business here. Of course not all lower priced veggies are fresh, so you need to consider price and quality before buying. And note, making the journey here is no easy task, but it can be an eye opener when it comes to pricing.     Another thing: there was just one lone seller selling the fancy mushroom, baby corn, broccoli, red and yellow peppers and red cabbage. This is clearly not the place for the exotic veggies. Getting there: Mafco market is near Sanpada railway station. The easiest way to get here is to get to Vashi station, hop into an auto rickshaw and ask to be taken to Mafco market. It’s very well known and a favourite among the residents of Navi Mumbai. The market is open every day of the week from 6 am to 9 pm (except on days of a bandh).     indira.rodericks@timesgroup.com 
Oppn tears into Pawar over high food prices New Delhi: Dissatisfied with agriculture minister Sharad Pawar’s reply on price rise, a united opposition interrupted him constantly in Rajya Sabha on Wednesday.     Though Pawar completed his reply, hardly anything could be heard as after every few minutes opposition members—either from BJP, CPM or Samajwadi Party—got up and objected. The hour-long reply by Pawar, after the House reassembled at 2 pm, saw frequent interruptions and shouting of slogans by the opposition which said the minister was not addressing the concerns raised by them specifically with regard to sugar prices and the issue price of commodities distributed through PDS. In the end, BJP members trooped to the well of the house alleging a sugar scam.     “Not a single kg of sugar was imported by the Government,” Pawar said amid the din, which forced adjournment of the House for the third time during the day over fuel or food prices.     The Opposition’s charge was that Pawar was not replying to the questions raised by them during the long debate. In the middle of Pawar’s reply, leader of opposition Arun Jaitley pointed out that the minister was not relying on an authentic source of information about price rise. Jaitley said the government’s Economic Survey points out that prices of potato and onion have been on the rise.     What particularly agitated the opposition benches was the minister’s refusal to talk about the impact of petroleum price hike on food products. Instead, Pawar claimed that over the past few weeks prices of pulses, potato and onion have experienced a declining trend. To prove his point, Pawar said West Bengal CM Buddhadeb Bhattacharjee had written to him seeking Centre’s help as the price of potato is going down. He also said that a delegation of Left MPs met him to help West Bengal with potato prices.     Ravi Shankar Prasad (BJP) said only few days back potato was being sold at Rs 12/kg. With opposition members interrupting constantly, Pawar refused to yield to Brinda Karat’s repeated plea for clarification.     The minister maintained that ever since UPA came to power enough had been done to bring down the prices and help farmers. He said the subsidy bill had gone up from Rs 16,000 crore to Rs 60,000 crore.     Attributing price rise also to bad kharif season, Pawar said hopefully good rabi crop will help bring down the prices further. TNN AND AGENCIES
Feel the pinch: Food inflation nears 18% again TIMES NEWS NETWORK New Delhi: Food inflation rose marginally to 17.87% for the week ended February 20 on the back of higher prices of milk, wheat, rice and vegetables. The figure in the previous week stood at 17.58%. On an annual basis, price of rice increased 10%, wheat 14%, pulses 35%, onions 11% and potatoes 28%.     Inflation in fuel, power light and lubricant group was 9.59%, slightly lower than 9.89% in the previous week. However, it is expected to surge significantly next week when the impact of the fuel price hike start getting reflected in the index.     The Budget last week raised customs duty on petrol and diesel to 7.5% from 2.5%, while excise duty was raised by Re 1 on non-branded (normal) petrol and diesel. This lead oil companies to immediately hike prices. Beginning February 27, petrol prices rose by Rs 2.67 a litre and diesel by Rs 2.58 per litre in Delhi.     Finance minister Pranab Mukherjee on Wednesday had blamed the multi-level supply chain system for stoking prices of food articles in the country. “Particularly with regard to food, I do agree that the cost of intermediation is very high from farm gate to the wholesale markets and from wholesale markets to retail markets,’’ he had said.     “And how to reduce the cost of intermediation is one of the terms of reference of the PMappointed core committee of chief ministers, in which the agriculture minister and Planning Commission deputy chairman and I are members,’’ Mukherjee had said.     The cost of intermediation is abnormally high, he said, and admitted that perhaps the market requires more competition. One way to increase competition is to improve the distribution channels, and set up physical infrastructure for post-harvest storage, he added.     During the week, the price of milk rose by 1% and fish by 3%, while prices of fruits and vegetables, gram and barley eased by 3% each. At the same time, tea, wheat, eggs and arhar became cheaper by 1% each. But the non-food articles group rose by 0.1% on account of higher prices of raw jute and raw rubber by 4% each.
FUELLING CONCERN Food inflation cools, but fuel prices rise TIMES NEWS NETWORK New Delhi: Food inflation cooled a tad to 17.81% during the last week of February. But overall inflation may not see much decline soon due to costlier motor fuels. While food prices are expected to moderate further in the weeks ahead, overall inflation may hit double digits by March-end as manufactured goods and fuel get more expensive.     RBI also said high inflation, primarily driven by food prices, had started spreading to the broader economy but it was likely to ease on the back of an expected moderation in food prices. “Inflation is now broad-based and spreading to areas other than food, especially manufacturing, and is not just restricted to food inflation,’’ agencies quoted RBI deputy governor Subir Gokarn as telling reporters in Mumbai. TOI had reported about the trend in its edition dated March 4.     Food inflation declined by 0.06 percentage points during the week ended February 27 from 17.87% in the previous week. Though a range of essential items still continue to be expensive, the pace of price rise has slowed down in the past few weeks. On year-on-year, pulses were dearer by 33.38, slightly lower than over 35% in the previous week. Potatoes turned costlier by 22.46% and onion rose by just 2.98%.     If the trend sustains, it would buttress the government’s confidence that prices will start easing from April. Overall vegetable prices shot up by 15.61%, milk 15.31% and fruits 11.77%. The budget announcement of a hike in excise and customs duty on petrol and diesel has led prices of petrol and diesel to rise by 6% and 8%, respectively. On yearly basis, petrol prices rose 16.82% and diesel 15.27%.
Food inflation dips, but rate hike looms TIMES NEWS NETWORK New Delhi: Food inflation slid to 16.3% in the first week of March, the lowest in four months, as prices of vegetables and lentils cooled. This vindicates the government’s stand that food prices will decline in the coming months. But with overall inflation seen at 10% in March, expectations grew stronger of the RBI tightening money supply to prevent inflation from spreading to manufactured goods.     Food inflation had last dipped below the 16%-mark for the week ending November 15, 2009, when it had dropped to 15.58%. The index came down by 1.51 percentage points in the week under review from 17.81% in the week before March 6. Onion prices fell 11% over the previous week and potato became cheaper by 3.5%. Overall vegetables prices during the same period dropped by 10.51%, while pulses came down 3.85%.     But with headline inflation pegged at 9.89% in March and expected to top 10% this month, the RBI is expected to suck out liquidity to check further inflationary pressures. Indeed, RBI deputy governor KC Chakrabarty on Thursday did not rule out the possibility of interest rate hikes ahead of the apex bank’s April policy review if inflation continues to rise.
Food inflation at 4-month low TIMES NEWS NETWORK New Delhi: Food inflation dropped to 16.22% for the week ended March 13, the lowest in four months, but the Reserve Bank of India could still raise rates for the second time in as many months in April to curb the impact of high food and fuel prices from spilling over to non-food items.     Food inflation had last slipped to below 16% in the week ending November 15, 2009, when it had dropped to 15.58%, according to the provisional figures. It declined as the pace of rise in prices of potatoes slowed and other vegetables such as onions became cheaper. It came down 0.08 percentage points from the previous week’s level but is unlikely to prevent the headline inflation hitting the double-digit mark in March, up from 9.89% in February.     During the week, petrol prices rose 16.82% while diesel turned costlier by 14.99% year-on-year, as the government restored customs on crude and raised excise duty on petrol and diesel.
Mandi & More Want organic produce for your kitchen? Go check out the weekly farmer’s market in Bandra, says Indira Rodericks     The queen of ’burbs, Bandra is host to an organic farmer’s market. Started last Sunday, it will hopefully be a weekly feature where organic fruits and vegetables will be retailed directly from the farmer to the buyer. The inaugural Sunday saw a pretty good turnout despite the sweltering heat beating down on the open-air stalls. Read on know what to expect. ORGANIC CALLING Farmers from in and around Mumbai (particularly Nashik), all of who belong to a certified group of organic farmers, bring in their produce here. An assortment of vegetables and fruits are on offer. Actually there was quite a bit to choose from on the first day. And by mid-afternoon most of it was sold out! Like the farmer who bought in his supply of raisins. Within a few hours most of his stock got sold out and he went home a happy man. What he hopes is to be just as lucky every week. ALL ORGANIC AND ECO-FRIENDLY! Of course the veggies were the biggest draw, but there was more. Stalls selling environment friendly bags, sherbets, manure, raisins, health foods and even organic floor cleaners and disinfectants evoked quite a bit of interest, but it’s hard to say whether it translated into sales. There was also a mini food court that sold mint tea, brown sugar, candy floss and a variety of health foods. While many could be seen enjoying a healthy organic breakfast, it remains to be seen if the enthusiasm stays. PAY MORE TO STAY HEALTHY One of the best farmers markets we have visited is the one in Raigad where produce from the villages around are sold at really low prices. Of course, nothing there spells organic, but cheap, certainly! But buying organic comes at a price. We think the pricing here is certainly a tad higher than your local markets. Also there needs to be a better transport and storage chain, as most of the leafy greens began to look wilted after a few hours. It might be fresh and grown healthy, but no one would want to buy veggies that don’t look as fresh as they ought to be. Still, the concept of an organic farmer’s market is novel; it certainly is worth checking out. Once, if not more… HERE'S WHAT YOU'LL PAY     TO GO ORGANIC… Raisins – Rs 100 for ½ kg Sourlimes – Rs 50 a dozen Coriander – Rs 25 a bunch Spinach – Rs 25 a bunch White Radish – Rs 20 for three Cucumbers – Rs 40 a kg Tomatoes – Rs 25 a kg Brinjals – Rs 30 a kg Onions – Rs 20 a kg Beetroots – Rs 30 a kg Drumsticks – Rs 20 a kg Chickoos – Rs 40 a kg Grapes – Rs 100 a kg
LEAVING A Bitter Taste Traders don’t see food prices falling Say Summer Shortages And Price Rigging Will Continue To Burn Holes In Shoppers’ Pockets Bella Jaisinghani | TNN     As if the rollercoaster ride of the past year was not dizzying enough, the pundits of the food bazaar predict that the retail prices of essential commodities are not likely to reduce for another six months.     “While a natural shortage of supply does occur during the summer months, public apprehensions about price rigging are not unfounded,’’ says a prominent wholesaler of foodgrains.     “There is no doubt that the powers-that-be are benefitting from this unprecedented rise in the retail costs of sugar, dal and rice. One poor monsoon and one Cyclone Phyan have been credited with having too much power over the economy,” says the wholesaler who preferred to remain unnamed.     Had the government rectified its faulty procurement policies or been seen to be acting tough towards hoarders, he adds, the cost of foodgrains would have de-escalated immediately.     Since neither seems to be happening, buyers and sellers alike remain doubtful about an imminent correction. Moong dal continues to hover at atmospheric heights of Rs 96 per kg while other pulses and foodgrains barely fare better. A medium variety of kolam rice sells for Rs 32 per kg, while average basmati tukda comes for Rs 35 to 40 per kg.     “Vegetable rates will rise further as supply slows down from March through June. Green peas are selling for Rs 50 per kg over Rs 30 two weeks ago,’’ says Shankar Maharaj, who owns a low-price vegetable store in Andheri’s Lokhandwala Complex.     On Monday, the old crop of potatoes sold for Rs 16 per kg, onions stood at Rs 17 per kg, wilted carrots came for Rs 30 per kg and sorrylooking striped brinjals cost Rs 35 per kg. Shiny red apples rubbed with liberal doses of wax sold for Rs 120 per kg.     Meat and poultry items continue to figure prominently on the frenzied upward spiral. “Mutton costs Rs 240 per kg now as opposed to Rs 180 per kg at the start of 2009,’’ says Salman Adam, proprietor of Food Plaza store in the suburbs. Asked whether prices stand to dip in the months ahead, he says matter-of-factly, “Prices seldom come down once they have attained a certain high.’’     Consumers of chicken have been crying foul for almost a year. On Monday, retail prices across the city stood at Rs 96 to 100 per kg. “As far as chicken goes, one cannot even purchase a kilo for the asking. One must buy a whole bird, and small ones that weigh upto a kilo are hardly available in the market these days,’’ says a shopper who buys every weekend. “So one is forced to buy a bigger bird that weighs over a kilo and may cost anywhere upto Rs 120 to 140.’’     “Chicken is driven by high demand,’’ says Ayaz Khan of Aziz Broiler in Bandra. “The bird is in short supply these days. And as more customers begin to choose chicken over mutton, the rates have risen sharply from Rs 70 to 75 per kg in early 2009 to almost Rs 100 per kilo now.’’     Aftab Ahmed Khan, chairman of the Mumbai Egg Traders Association, recalls how the price of eggs had escalated to Rs 40 per dozen last November. “The rising cost of chicken feed is passed on to the retail buyer. Prices have now come down to Rs 30 per dozen thanks to the sluggish demand expected during the summer months, but they are likely to rise again once June is here,’’ Khan says. Costly Difference A Year Makes Rise in average prices during April-December 2009 as compared to same period in ’08 50% and over Urban Areas Tur dal, moong dal, potato, sugar, gur Rural Areas Tur dal, moong dal, potato, sugar, gur, onion 25% to 50% Urban Areas Urad dal, ghee, garlic, turmeric powder, onion Rural Areas Urad dal, masur dal, garlic, turmeric powder Up to 25% Urban Areas Rice, masur dal, milk, goat, meat, chicken, fish Rural Areas Rice, bajra, milk, ghee, eggs, fish MIXED BASKET: Comparing 2008-09 to 2009-10
Prices of essential food items in state soared last year Chittaranjan Tembhekar | TNN Mumbai: The people of Maharashtra have been paying through their nose to keep their kitchens going over the past year and the government’s recent Economic Survey of Maharashtra 2009-10 only underlines this fact.     In just a year, essential ingredients like potatoes, sugar, gur, moong dal and tur dal became costlier by 50% or more in urban areas, according to the survey, which compared prices from April to December of 2009 with the corresponding period in 2008.     The cost of onions, ghee and turmeric powder—which are used in a vast majority of Mumbai’s kitchens—rose by 25 to 50% and the cost of milk, eggs, fish, chicken and mutton went up by up to 25%.     The prices are not expected to return to the April 2009 levels soon, as statistics in the survey also show a high inflationary trend. While inflation for the past five years peaked in 2008-09 at 12.9% in urban areas and 13.2% for rural areas, it remained at a high 9.9% and 11.4% for both these areas in 2009-10. The state is also reeling because 31% of its population lives below the poverty line, as against the 27.5% all-India level. Consumer indexes saw highest rises in 5 years Mumbai: The high inflationary rate prevailing across Maharashtra compelled the Directorate of Economics & Statistics to assess the price situation. The directorate collected the retail prices of essential commodities and services on a weekly basis from selected centres in rural and urban areas of the state. On the basis of these prices, a monthly Consumer Price Index (CPI) was compiled separately for rural and urban areas.     The resulting study revealed that the cost of rice had risen by upto 25% across Maharashtra in 2009 as compared to 2008. Garlic, which is used in many urban kitchens, became 25 to 50% dearer in both urban and rural markets. INFLATION     Inflation has been estimated at 9.9% for urban areas and 11.4% for rural areas across the state in 2009-10. It has grown steadily since 2005-06, when it was at a healthy 3.2% in urban and 3.8% in rural areas. (See, ‘Life gets costlier.’)     Minor inflation of 3 to 4% is an indicator of growth, as it encourages production and does not discourage consumption.     Inflation is measured through the Wholesale Price Index (WPI) as well as the Consumer Price Index (CPI). The WPI is based on the prices of commodities in the wholesale markets or the prices at which bulk transactions take place. The CPI is based on the prices at which the consumer purchases commodities in the local market or the prices at which retail transactions take place. URBAN PRICES     While assessing prices in urban areas, the weekly retail prices of 127 commodities were collected from 74 centres. For April 2009, the CPI for urban areas was 144.1, which increased to 165.9 in December 2009, a rise of 21.8 points that was the highest in the past five years. In the food group, the rise was clearly due to costlier rice, wheat, tur dal, moong dal, potato, onion and sugar.     In 2009-10 (till December 2009), the average CPI for urban areas was 154.3, which increased by 9.9% over the corresponding period of the previous year (140.5). In the food group alone, the increase was 15.5%. Apart from this, a rise in electricity charges after September 2009 also resulted in an increase in the index for the fuel, power and light group. RURAL PRICES     For assessing the price situation in rural areas, weekly retail prices of 106 commodities were collected from 68 centres. The CPI for rural areas for April 2009 was 149.3, which continuously increased and reached 172.8 in December 2009, thus recording a rise of 23.5 points during the year, the highest ever in the last five years. This rise was mainly due to an increase in the prices of rice, wheat, tur dal, moong dal, potato, onion and sugar in the food group.
J U G U L A R V E I N Baigun days Preparing ourselves for the Bt brinjal Jug Suraiya     The Bt brinjal has been put into cold storage, and i have mixed feelings about this. Food prices being as high as they are, anything that promised an increase in the supply of foodstuffs – as the Bt brinjal did – might be deemed to be no bad thing. On the hand, however, why a Bt brinjal? Why not a Bt potato, or a Bt onion, or almost any other veggie?     On my list of most hated veggies, brinjal ranks third. The first is karela. With its thick, scaly, warty skin it looks and tastes like the Great Horned Toad, found in the deserts of Arizona and New Mexico. No, i’ve never been to the deserts of Arizona and New Mexico. Nor have i ever seen a Great Horned Toad, much less eaten one. But the karela looks, and tastes like what i think a Great Horned Toad should look and taste like, were you to eat one in preference to the karela. Toss a coin. Heads toad, tails karela. Second on my list of villainous vegetables is the tinda. I have never eaten a tinda in my life. The sight of it is enough. Lightly sauteed, with a touch of haldi and dhania, it exudes the gelatinous squidginess of partly congealed phlegm. Yuck time.     Third comes the brinjal. Bulbous and purple black – the colour of midnight conspiracy and brooding stratagems – there is something profoundly sinister about the brinjal. Its aspect is that of a vegetable with a deep and dire secret, a vegetable whose malevolent visage might well adorn Wanted posters. For one thing there’s the spooky business of its many aliases. Why does a vegetable have to have so many names? It’s like those terrorist bods who call themselves al-Qaeda one day, LeT the next, and IM the third day, to keep one step ahead of not only the long arm of the law, but the even longer arm of their moms who don’t know who or what the heck they are any more.     The brinjal is like that, boasting more names than the Yellow Pages does under the listing for ‘Groups, Jehadi’. In English the brinjal is also known as aubergine. In Hindi it is baigun. In Bengali baygoon. In Kutchi and Gujarati it is ringro. In its albino avatar, when it is white and elongated, it becomes an eggplant. Why would anyone in their right minds trust a vegetable with so many different identities? What’s the damn thing trying to hide anyway?     Despite these many question marks that loom over it, our genetic scientists for some strange reason chose the brinjal as the subject of their experimentation, like latter-day Dr Frankensteins trying to create a monstrous baigun to end all baiguns. The unleashing of the Bt brinjal on the baigun-eating citizenry has been deferred, perhaps wisely. But before the Bt brinjal is let loose on us it is best to give a thought as to what we are going to do with it. In what form are people going to eat it? This could have many social and cultural ramifications. For instance, the Bengalis eat baigun as baygoon bhaja, deep fried in mustard oil. There is a theory that it is the repeated ingestion of baygoon bhaja which gave birth to the dyspeptic melancholy of Rabindra sangeet, one of whose famous songs is called ‘Baygoonair Parosmoni’ and goes ‘Ai baygoon purno koro, ai baygoon purno koro’ (finish this baigun, finish this baigun).     But perhaps the most acceptable form of the vegetable is in that of the Punjabi baigun bharta. A baigun is smoked on a fire. Chopped onion and spices added, the baigun has the living bejesus beaten out of it. This is ostensibly to soften it, but the real reason is to make sure it knows who’s boss. Whipped into submission, the baigun is made to know its place in the order of things.     So roll on the Bt brinjal revolution, whenever it comes. India that is Bharta will be ready for it.
Rabi arrival eases food inflation TIMES NEWS NETWORK New Delhi: Food inflation cooled off by over one percentage point to a month’s low of 16.61% in the week ended April 17 as pressure on prices declined with the arrival of rabi (winter) crops in the markets. However, analysts said price pressure will remain till June, with the effect of food inflation spreading to manufactured items.     But government officials said food prices will decline further as the projection of a normal monsoon will calm speculative activities in the commodities markets.     Over the week, inflation declined from 17.65% as prices of masur, jowar, fruits and vegetables dropped around 2% and that of wheat by 1%. However, moong, urad and fish-inland became costlier. But pulses remained expensive by about 30%, milk by 22% and fruits by about 10% over the last year.     “The outlook is further brightened by the fact that a normal monsoon is predicted this year... Indications of softening of food inflation are clearly visible... It is expected that this decline will continue in the coming months uninterruptedly,’’ finance minister Pranab Mukherjee had said on Wednesday.     However, overall inflation is spreading to non-food segments. The wholesale pricebased inflation in March was 9.9%, much higher than RBI’s projection of 8.5% by Marchend. On an annual basis, potatoes saw a significant fall of 28% in prices on glut in supplies and onions became cheaper by 10%.     To contain rising inflation, the RBI, in its April 20 monetary policy for 2010-11, had raised its key short-term lending and borrowing rates and the ratio of money banks have to park with the central bank by 25 basis points each.
Food inflation declines for second week to 16.04% TIMES NEWS NETWORK New Delhi: Food inflation eased for the second consecutive week to 16.04% as prices of essential items came down marginally due to the arrival of winter crops and forecast of a normal monsoon eased speculative activities in commodity markets. But fuel inflation remained unchanged at 12.69%, which is maintaining pressure on manufacturing cost and the resultant spread to headline inflation.     The 0.57-percentage point fall in food inflation during the week ended April 24, from 16.61% a week earlier, was mainly on account of easing pressure on prices with the arrival of rabi crops in the markets.     Chief economic adviser Kaushik Basu feels that overall inflation may decline to 6-7% in next three months. Even though food inflation has fallen for two straight weeks, it’s still above 15%, a level that was crossed in November last year. UN body ESCAP said enhanced level of food prices is a matter of concern, but added that inflation will cool down this year.     Over the week, inflation declined as prices of fish, wheat, fruits and vegetables fell by 1% each. However, tea, gram and eggs became costlier. Tea prices rose 13% while maize, gram and eggs prices were up 1% each. On an annual basis, potatoes saw a fall of 32% in prices on glut in supplies in various parts of the country and onions became cheaper by 26%. However, pulses remained expensive by about 31%, milk by 21% and fruits by over 14% over the last year.
MANDI & MORE Market Mayhem! Pali Market is the place for your fruit, vegetables and groceries… ignore everything else on the stretch, says Indira Rodericks     Years ago, when this area of Bandra was not the chaos it has now become, it was the place where the stars shopped. If you can ignore the mess around what is popularly known as the Pali Market, you can have a rather therapeutic day shopping for your kitchen. The produce is fresh, the choices are varied and the price… well let’s call it affordable. Profile Pali Market Even though malls have taken away the joy of shopping at local markets, here you’ll find that much of the old charm remains. The hawkers blissfully occupy all of the pavement space and continue to hold forth an assortment of medical, hardware, stationary shops and fruits and veggies. One look at what they have on display and you know that you are buying your money’s worth. The fruit and vegetables arrive during the early hours of the morning and the stall owners spend a good part of their time making sure the display looks right. After all, this is a competitive market and it’s important for each stall owner to mark his territory. Options galore Here you find most of the Indian and imported fruits. Mangoes are available in plenty; this being the season, but that doesn’t mean the rest from the family is left out. You’ll find the red, pink and green apples, red and green pears, baby watermelons, papayas, chickoos, ripe green kiwis, oranges, mandarins, sweet limes, melons, lichees, and green and yellow bananas. If you’re lucky you’ll be able to spot vendors selling the seasonal black jamuns, tadgolas (ice apples), white jams (love apples) and pink guavas. Let the monsoon commence and there’ll be much more to choose from… juicy peaches, ripe plums, sweet cherries and tart apricots.     In the vegetable section also there’s loads. Quite a section of the market is dedicated to the exotic kind, but don’t expect reasonable prices here. But if it’s daily groceries you are looking for, then this is where you get the best. Potatoes, onions, garlic, carrots (not the winter red variety though), cauliflowers, cabbages (both the red and green variety), those dark red beets, snake gourd, ridge gourd, bitter gourd, juicy tomatoes, brinjals, broad beans, French beans, pumpkins, cucumbers (especially the country variety), plus all your healthy and flavoured greens…, you’ll find all this and more in surplus here. Bargain basics A bit of bargaining might help, but don’t go overboard or you’ll lose out on a good buy. By and large we find this to be a relatively good market in this part of the suburbs for your kitchen needs. So if you’ve not walked down this stretch before, we suggest you do so… Perfect timing We don’t recommend visiting Pali Market in the morning — the road is choc-a-bloc with traffic and you can spot staff from the restaurants along the road, clearing out their garbage. It is a nauseating sight, absolutely filthy to look at; the less said about the stench the better. Why this has to be done at this unearthly hour is anybody’s guess… But by mid-afternoon (and the evening) the chaos sobers down and you’ll find local residents doing some serious buying.     indira.rodericks@timesgroup.com 
Feb inflation breaches 10% mark TIMES NEWS NETWORK New Delhi: The wholesale prices-based inflation breached the double-digit mark in February to reach 10.06%, the first time in 16 months, even as quick estimates for April showed the index lower at 9.59%. The figures for February inflation was provisionally estimated at 9.89% but final numbers showed it had crossed double digits.     The last time wholesale inflation was in double digits was in October 2008 when it had risen to 11.8%. Data for April showed potato prices declining 28.7% and onion dipping 11.62%. Sugar prices fell by 5.74% on a monthly basis.     Food inflation in April was at 16.87% against 16.65% in the previous month, with prices of pulses rising by 2.47% and milk by 2.96%. On yearly basis, these prices rose much faster — pulses by 30.42% and milk by 21.95%.
Heat wave pushes up vegetable prices Nitin Yeshwantrao | TNN Thane: A fierce heat wave coupled with long hours of load shedding in rural pockets has led to an alarming slump in the cultivation of vegetables — which is likely to translate into a further rise in their prices.     Green chillies, for instance, have already touched Rs 60 to Rs 70 a kilo; tomatoes, Rs 18 a kilo; and beans, lady’s fingers and cauliflower are approximately Rs 40 a kilo.     The past two months have seen a sharp fall in the cultivation of tomatoes, chillies, peas and leafy and salad vegetables. “The yield of tomatoes and leafy vegetables has touched a new low due to extreme climatic conditions. The crop just wilted in the heat and most farmers suffered 50% to 60% loss in their standing crop,’’ Shriram Gadhve, president of the Vegetable Growers’ Association of India told TOI.     Moreover, as most of the crop is dependent on irrigation, long hours of load shedding damaged it further. “For farmers, the input costs have risen considerably as they are now spending more on pesticides to counter certain crop diseases. To top it, this year, the temperature soared to 41 degree celsius. All this has resulted in a 60% drop in cultivation,’’ said Gadhve.     Officials at the Kalyan Agriculture Produce Market Committee said the vegetable stock has been in short supply since the past month. “We would get eight to 10 tonnes of green chillies daily, but in the past few weeks, the supply has fallen to just one-and-a-half tonne a day. Ditto in case of green vegetables where the current supply is limited to just about eight trucks a day as compared to 25 trucks two months ago,’’ said Yeshwant Patil, assistant secretary of Kalyan APMC. The hot and dry climate, said Patil, has caused a huge damage to the stock during the transportation stage itself.     “Take, for example, green peas. The stock is dispatched regularly from Simla and takes about 40 hours to reach Kalyan. Under the present circumstances, vegetables lose their freshness fast and nearly half the stock has to be disposed of,’’ Patil said.     While the prices of onions, potatoes and the foodgrain stock have remained mostly stable, vegetables are increasingly turning scarce and the situation will not change till the monsoon makes an entry, Patil added.
Food inflation rises to 16.5% TIMES NEWS NETWORK New Delhi: Food inflation rose a tad to 16.49% for the week ended May 8 against an annual food inflation of 16.44% in the previous reporting week, even as analysts saw the index remaining at this level until signs of a normal monsoon get visible on the ground.     The scorching heat is also being seen as an impediment to lowering of prices of perishables such as fruits and vegetables since the weather is making stocking operations difficult. Also, non-food articles are seen putting pressure on inflation. On a weekly basis, vegetables turned expensive by 2.41%, onions turned dearer by 5.73%, potatoes by 0.95% and fruits by 0.41%, while prices of urad and moong rose by 2% each.     According to Crisil principal economist D K Joshi, prices will come down with clarity on this year’s monsoon and in the second half of the fiscal.
Food inflation at 16.7%, RBI may up rates New Delhi: Food inflation rose for the second consecutive week, pushed by higher prices of fruits, pulses and milk to 16.74%, prompting speculation that the Reserve Bank may tighten money supply at its policy meet next month.     Food prices increased by 0.19 percentage point for the week ended May 29 from 16.55% in the previous week.     Prices of pulses shot up by 31% , that of milk by 21% and fruits by 18.7%.     Consumer staples, such as rice and wheat, turned costlier by 7% and 3% respectively. However, prices of potatoes and onions eased by 30.87% and 12.27% respectively.     The RBI, according to analysts, may take steps to control money supply in a bid to cool inflation, which has remained at an elevated level despite moderation from 20% in December. AGENCIES
MANDI AND MORE Produce from across continents Vile Parle’s Irla lane boasts of imported varieties of fruits, different sizes of vegetables and unusual farsaan options SAADIA S DHAILEY     An activist once told me that the very narrow, spacecrunched Irla lane is actually a 90 feet road as per the city’s development plan! I think I understand now why the locals bear being thrown on the roads to battle with cars, as hawkers take to their footpaths.     The Irla Road seems to have everything for almost every need and most importantly for every pocket. From clothes and accessories to electronics, medicines and groceries, it makes for a good one-stop shop. An international street mart Persistent efforts of some local activist has reduced the number of hawkers lining the lane today, but those who’ve stayed behind haven’t slacked owing to less competition. The options and pricing will definitely bring you here again. The fruitwallas stock seasonal and also some imported non-seasonal fruits that they pick up from the Vashi market. Among the variety of mangoes, Gujarat’s Kesar is a popular with all the vendors at a reasonable price of Rs 40 per kg. Apart from the apples from India, you’ll find here apples from China as well as America and pears from South Africa for Rs 150 per kg. The Oranges from California are for Rs 200 a dozen and big red grapes from Chile for 250 per kg. A suggestion: Don’t settle for the first price they quote. There’s room for bargaining. Veggies, big and small The Irla Road has only two vegetable vendors, one in the middle and the other towards the East. Both stock the most common foreign entrants to Indian kitchen in the recent years — the colourful capsicums, mushrooms, baby corn, sweet corn and baby potato and tomatoes. Then you have all the vegetables you can think of for a complete vegetarian meal — French beans, gavar (string beans), tendli, suran, parval, arvi, Cauliflower, karela, beet, radish and of course, the regular onions and tomatoes, everything is available between the two hawkers. Vegetables like potatoes and even bringal in their mini and regular sizes. In fact, three eggplant varieties are available — regular, baby and tall. But don’t bother bargaining with the vegetable vendours. Snacking options While the lane is dotting with pani puri stalls for you to snack on the move, there’s loads for you to take home. The farsaan shops here reflect the preferences of predominant community with ample of innovative options too for instance the paneer dhokla. It's like a sandwich dhokla that has a layer of tomato purée and paneer slices. Diet papad are also stocked apart of a huge range of khakras (just ask for the flavour on your mind) and around 250 options for mouth fresheners, suparis and churans! Then there are mini chaklees, soya chaklees and farsaan for all tastes, even for diabetics.
Vendors profit at customers’ cost Prices Remain High Despite Wholesalers Confirming A Good Harvest Of Pulses, Vegetables Bella Jaisinghani | TNN Mumbai: The little yellow stickers that the neighbourhood vendor affixes upon packaged commodities to rig profit are now old hat. If any more proof was needed that the unbridled hike in food prices is driven by artificial mechanisms, not natural causes like a poor monsoon or Cyclone Phyan, this is it. TOI has learned that retailers have now come to demand that manufacturers print the maximum retail price (MRP) to suit their profit margins. Retailers obtain products at a relatively low cost and insist that the wholesaler print an MRP that is vastly enhanced, burdening the consumer with their greed.     One of India’s leading wholesalers of frozen green peas explains that he sells his product to retailers for Rs 65 per kg but is forced to print Rs 120-150 per kg upon the package. “So limited is the fear of the law that retailers only buy from those wholesalers who are willing to print the maximum MRP they demand, irrespective of the quality of the product. If I refuse to rig the MRP to suit their demands, they instantly move on to the next wholesaler,’’ says the wholesaler. “No checks and balances are in place.’’     In fact, retailers who were anticipating a fuel price hike last week also hiked the cost of moong dal to Rs 120 per kg, dropping it to Rs 110 when it failed to materialise.     Incidentally, it was the price of onions that had cost the BJP a general election, but this time around, political parties, social activists and even advocacy groups are remaining unusually silent on the issue. The BJP state party president Sudhir Mungantiwar, when contacted, cited a recent rally that he had led to protest the price. “We had gathered 25 lakh signatures. In a democracy what can we do but protest by democratic means?’’ he asks.     The voluntary sector also feels the issue is too hot to handle. “No NGO will touch the issue because it has become so heavily politicised,’’ says Gerson da Cunha, convenor of AGNI. “In any case, what do you do about price rise? How is a protest going to contain it?’’ He admits that NGOs lack knowledge about economics. Most of them have opted for fundraiser causes like disease and disability, environment, open spaces or underprivileged segments. For now, though, price rise is too generic an issue to take up.     Congress MLA Krishna Hegde said the government is doing its best to control the price. “Already, seven or eight essential items are not on the commodities exchange. In any case, we are hoping for a good monsoon,’’ he said. Why You Are Paying More     Retailers have begun to demand that manufacturers and wholesalers print a certain MRP on the pack that is in excess of the actual cost. Several times, they affix little yellow price labels of their own upon the printed MRP. Retail chains offer a premium to buy directly from farmers and sell their high volumes cheap. And so small retailers get the leavings and must sell at a higher price     Several companies choose to reduce the weight of the contents while keeping the price of the pack constant, knowing that customers seldom check anything other than the price     Adulteration has picked up on a mass scale. While growers mix deadly cocktails of fertiliser or inject toxins to increase the size, shape or ripe appearance of their produce, vegetable vendors spray water to enhance weight and refresh old stock     Artificial shortages are created as huge stocks of foodgrain and pulses are left to rot in godowns or stalled at ports rather than being channelised into the market     Middle- and high-income households have been eliminated from the public distribution system by being allotted the white card that disqualified them from purchasing essential commodities. Lower income groups complain that PDS supplies are routed into the black market
Eating out AMIDST GREEK ISLES BEING AT ZAFRAAN IN PUNE FEELS LIKE BEING AMIDST GREENS AND BLUES AND SAVOURING SOME OF THE MOST AWESOME DISHES, SAYS ARCHANA SINHA     Among the various things that Pune is famous for, its gourmet restaurants top the chart. One such place to be with your friends and family is Zafraan, the roof- top restaurant on the seventh floor of Panchshil Tech Park, Yerawada.     It was past lunch time when we reached the rooftop restaurant and we were famished. But to our pleasant surprise we were greeted with a warm welcome into this 17,500 sq ft restaurant by the General Manager of the restaurant Rehan Guha, who ushered us to a lovely corner in the Exotica section, from where we got a generous view of Pune.Wet cologned towels were given to us and a glass of chilled water was served immediately, which made us feel good within seconds.     The décor of the restaurant was pleasant, quite rustic, yet sophisticated. Water bodies and natural plants surround simple wooden tables and chairs framed ornately with wrought iron - you get a typical garden restaurant feel.     The restaurant is divided into three parts according to the cuisine it serves, that is Laguna, Exotica and Aquaa Lounge Bar which is a little secluded and tucked away behind the 25-feet long aquarium.     The décor varies according to the cuisine it serves although at the first look Exotica and Laguna seem to be part of the same restaurant. "They seem seamless, but if you look carefully there is a differentiation. In the Laguna we serve Mediterranean dishes and the furniture has an Italian - Greek feel, whereas the Exotica serves Indo-Pak cuisine, hence the décor is more Indian. It is built on three levels, so that you get good views from every table.We also serve Lebanese and Moroccan cuisines."     The Aquaa Lounge Bar with its Sapphire lighting looks brilliant in the evenings against the 25-feet long aquarium. You could arrange your own private party of 80 to 100 people here.     From Zafraan, the views of Pune and surrounding hills are fascinating and I am sure the evenings will be romantic with a lit up city around you.     The bar counter in the centre is spacious and really makes for the centrepiece of the décor. At night the entire ambience with special lightings and blue water bodies reflecting in their resplendent splendour looks gorgeous against the open sky and buildings outside.     The constant flow of cool breeze makes an air conditioner redundant. There are windows on one side, but the other two sides are open. Doesn't that make it difficult to manage the table cloths and crockery, I asked. Says Guha, "Yes, the cloths and napkins can fly off. So we have used heavy material for table décor. The napkins are pressed under the cutlery and we have selected heavy plates that are beautifully placed over metal flat plates that serve as mats. The metal tumblers go with the rest of the décor." Intelligent, very intelligent, I thought.     The Sunday brunch is not worth missing, informs Guha, which has ‘just food’ and ‘food with unlimited drinks’, priced at Rs. 399/- and Rs 699/-per head, respectively.     Sitting in the Exotica part, we opted for a lacarte. At the chef's recommendation we tried a mixed non-vegetarian platter for the starters, cooked in Mediterranean cum Lebanese stylean assortment of Mutton Saamose, Mutton Kibbe and Chicken Kebabs served with Hummus and Aubergine and chickpeas dip. They were lip-smacking. Of course if you are conscious about your calorie intake then you should quickly move on to other dishes after tasting; they are fried and taste awesome.     Being a small eater, I went straight for the main course and ordered for Rajasthani Laal Maas, Garlic Naan and Zafraani Onion Kulcha. The Laal Maas was spicy, but cooked very well… soft, the morsels just disappeared as soon as they were taken in, and the Kulcha was just marvellous.     On Guha's recommendation we ordered Lichee Malai for desert. Tiny rasagullas were stuffed in lichees and placed in generous servings of rabdi…umm, it was good, but a bit sweet for my palate. Of course, if you like Indian desserts, this one is for you.     We came out feeling good after enjoying interesting conversations over good food and drinks amidst a great ambience. Service was really quick and very cordial. It was like a romantic trip to the Greek isles where you are surrounded by aqua blue water and expanses of green, with lotus flowers floating in between. And you have the open sky to flirt with. CHEF'S PLATTER Charcoal Roasted Mushrooms Mixed Mediterranean Platter Kesari Murgh Tikka Lahori Murgh Masala Laal Maas Zafraani Onion Kulcha Lichee Malai
Food inflation nears 17% on rising prices of milk, pulses TIMES NEWS NETWORK New Delhi: Continuing its upward spiral, food inflation neared 17% at 16.9% in the week ended June 12 from 16.12% a week ago. The data comes a day ahead of a ministerial panel’s meeting to decide on increasing fuel prices. The latest data on food prices reinforces the deepening impact on headline inflation, which has already topped 10%, and will weigh on the minds of the panel.     The main contributors of food inflation’s rise are pulses and milk. Year-on-year, pulses turned dearer by 34.14%, while milk cost 21.12% more. However, prices of potato and onion were down by 37% and 22%, respectively. Food inflation has pushed core inflation into double digits in May, prompting speculation that the Reserve Bank would tighten monetary policy to temper consumer spending.     “Inflation rate has reached uncomfortable levels. Therefore, some action is called for. It is for the Reserve Bank to decide on the timing. But, some action is called for,’’ PM’s Economic Advisory Council chairman C Rangarajan had said earlier this week, setting off speculation that action could come before the Bank’s July 27 scheduled policy review.     Finance minister Pranab Mukherjee too had dropped broad hints that there could be policy action by RBI, saying: “So far as the monetary part is concerned, the Reserve Bank will look into it.’’ However, economists indicated no such immediate action was warranted as the index was almost unchanged.
Freight hike to push up prices Vegetables, Other Essentials To Cost Up To 30% More Somit Sen & Vijay Singh | TNN Mumbai: With the Centre hiking the cost of diesel, transporters in Maharashtra have decided to increase the freight rates. This development will have a cascading effect on the prices of vegetables, fruits and other essential commodities. The prices are estimated to soar by 20% to 30%, according to sources in the wholesale market.     “We plan to increase freight charges by at least 8% to 10% on every route,’’ said Maharashtra Truck Owners Association (MTOA) chairperson Gangadhar Agarwal. “The freight was increased by about 15% in March, when the Centre announced a hike in tax on diesel. With a second hike in just three months, the burden of inflation will be passed on to the common man,’’ he said.     Bombay Goods Transport Association (BGTA) president Bal Malkit Singh said that transport associations were usually left with no choice but to “advice” members to hike freight rates every time the Centre increased diesel prices. “It is not just the fuel hike, but the subsequent rise in prices of spare parts like tyres which compel us to raise the transportation costs. Eventually, it is the aam admi who is the worst hit,’’ he said, adding that the BGTA strongly condemned the Centre’s decision to hike diesel price by two rupees.     Director of the Grains Market of APMC, Jayesh Vora, told TOI: “Every day, on an average, over 1,500 trucks and tempos transport wheat, rice and other foodgrains to the market at Vashi as well as take them out of the market to various retail destinations. So obviously, with the diesel hike, the transportation costs will rise, and affect food prices.’’     Traders are thinking of having a meeting of the representatives of all the five sections of APMC market to decide on the new wholesale rates following the fuel hike. Ashok Valunj, director of Onion-Potato section of APMC market, stated that the current wholesale rates of onions is Rs 60 to Rs 70 per 10 kg, while the potatoes cost Rs 72-75 per 10 kg. He asserted that these rates may rise overnight in proportion to the increase in transportation costs.     J K Jain, owner of Parasmani Roadlines in Dana Bunder, said that among all the overhead costs for transporting goods, the money spent on diesel was maximum. Moreover, the diesel prices in Mumbai were the highest among the four metros.     Agarwal said that according to the new rates, the cost of transporting goods from Mumbai to Pune would increase to Rs 5,500 from Rs 5,000 per trip. “The prices of goods — be it cement or vegetable — would automatically shoot up.’’     Price of BEST bus tickets will also be hiked as 1,800 buses ply on diesel. “If it is not hiked, the burden on BEST due to the CNG and diesel hike would total Rs 60 crore,’’ said the BEST spokesperson. The price of ST bus tickets are also likely to increase as 98% of the 16,000-strong fleet ran on diesel, a spokesperson from MSRTC said.     Parshuram Katke of MTOA said the fuel hike was an extra burden on Mumbai transporters. “They are already burdened with higher sales tax, VAT, octroi, toll and professional taxes, and are made to compulsarily phase out trucks (valued at about Rs 12 lakhs) every eight years.’’ Transporters May Go On Strike     Will transporters in Mumbai go on a flash strike to protest the diesel hike? G R Shanmugappa, president of All India Motor Transport Congress, the national body of transporters, was in Mumbai on Friday when the Centre announced the hike. He immediately called for a meeting of all transport unions in Mumbai and discussed what strategy could be worked out to protest the government’s decision. “We oppose the diesel hike as it is uncalled for,’’ Shanmugappa said. “Inflation is already at an all-time high. Why is the government putting more burden on transporters and thereby on the common man?” he asked.     Sources in the Mumbai transport unions said local transporters wanted to go in for a showdown with the government, and were considering keeping trucks and tempos off the roads for a day. “However, we have to take a final decision on our agitation,’’ BGTA president Bal Malkit Singh said.
Taming inflation top priority: RBI Mumbai: Ahead of its monetary policy review, a Reserve Bank report on Thursday said the central bank should accord priority to contain inflation and ensuring price stability.     The headline inflation is in double digits at 10.16%, though food inflation eased for the week ended June 19 to 12.92 on a low base effect. Food inflation was 16.9% in the previous week.     The apex bank, in its report on ‘currency and finance 2008-09’ released here on Thursday, also made a strong case for coordinated withdrawal of stimulus by different countries as the global economy is yet to fully recover from the financial crisis.     The report, authored by the economists working with the Reserve Bank, stressed that the primary objective of the monetary policy should be to work for price stability, besides ensuring stability of the financial sector and real economy.     The central bank is slated to come out with its first quarter monetary policy review on July 27, during which it is expected to take steps to contain inflation, while ensuring adequate liquidity to the productive sectors of the economy.     “Inflation pressure will remain,’’ the RBI report said and pointed out that “important challenges for the monetary policy authorities would be (to) ensure financial stability, although price stability should continue as the primary objective of the policy.’’     Even as food inflation eased substantially by nearly 4 percentage points during the week ended June 19 from over 16.9% a week ago, economists expect RBI to focus on taming inflation.     Because of the high base effect, cereal inflation came down to 5.36% against 13.42% a year ago, vegetables fell 1.17% against 25.19%. Within vegetables, potatoes turned cheaper by 39.61%, while onion prices fell by 7.36%.     Among cereals, rice inflation was 6.44% against 17.22% a year ago, and wheat stood at 4.49% against 6.40%.     However, many commodities such as milk, fruits and pulses turned expensive during the week under review. Pulses rose by 31.57% yearon-year despite some moderation on a weekly basis.     While releasing the report, Reserve Bank deputy governor Subir Gokarn described the ongoing Eurozone debt owes as the fallout and continuation of the global financial meltdown of 2008-09 and added the world economy may take some more time to pull itself off the brink.     “The (global financial and economic) crisis is not still put to rest,” he said. AGENCIES ‘India now more prone to slowdown’ Mumbai: The shift in the composition of aggregate demand towards exports during the current decade has made the Indian economy more susceptible to global developments, a report by RBI’s department of economic analysis and policy (DEAP) said. India’s bilateral synchronisation, along with business cycle synchronisation with three groups — the world economy, advanced and emerging and developing countries — reflects the strengthening of the co-movement of India’s business cycle with the rest of the world, the DEAP report said. “Hence, the decoupling hypothesis is not found to be tenable during the recent global financial crisis,” it said. AGENCIES
Food inflation falls to 12.6%, but fuel index on the rise TIMES NEWS NETWORK New Delhi: Food inflation eased to 12.63% for the week ended June 26 but fuel inflation increased to over 18%, reflecting the government’s decision to raise prices of petrol, diesel, kerosene and cooking gas on June 25. Food inflation in the previous week ended June 19 was 12.92%.     Vegetable prices fell by over 4% year-on-year, led by a substantial decline in the prices of potato and onion. Potato became cheaper by over 42%, while onion by 8.75% on an annual basis.     But the second straight weekly fall in food inflation is unlikely to bring much cheer to policy makers as the fuel price hike could push up headline inflation by over 1 percentage point which, at present, is the highest among the G20 economies. The index will jump again at the next reading, with the government having raised fuel prices from June 26.     Overall inflation for May stood at 10.16%, led by higher food prices. Food inflation had remained above the 16% for most part of the year. However, it had fallen sharply for the week ended June 19 to 12.92% from 16.9% in the week ago.     After the government raised fuel prices, the Reserve Bank of India raised its key rates earlier than expected by 25 basis points, the third hike so far this year, in an effort to bring down inflation. The government is pinning its hopes for cooling food prices on a good monsoon.
My Sweet (Work) Load The pause and effect of shedding ministerial burdens     Tut tut. We aam janata have a very wrong idea of our netas. We disparage them for taking the PPP (portfolios-perksprivileges) route when on coalition course. Competitive berth pangs, we say, drive political careerists. And yet we’ve seen dramatic displays of tyaag, such as the one that catapulted the Congress boss to political sainthood. Well, renunciation’s still in fashion. In a humbler display, the agriculture minister wishes to farm out some of the amassed spoils of his multifaceted office: NCP’s chiefdom, ministries of agriculture, food & civil supplies and consumer affairs, plus an ICC presidency. As he suggests, after “44 years in Parliament” and “25-26 years in government”, why not off-load the Pawar and the glory?     True. What better time to shed the burden of managing food and civil supplies? Hasn’t inflation become a runaway bride, with onions, potatoes, milk and sugar chasing after? Aren’t opposition nosey-parkers raising hell about bhookh and mehengai? And won’t the ministerial load get heavier when the Congress chief’s new pet project takes off? If food security’s to be the poor’s entitlement, food insecurity can’t surely be staple for the man-in-charge. Food for thought and a quick exit, eh?     Besides, all work and no play makes Jack a dull mantri. Ex-cricketer Craig McDermott said sometime ago that fast bowlers should be used in short bursts during matches so they don’t burn out. This logic of recovery time applies to ministers as well. It’s unfair, then, to say the new but overloaded ICC prez will only work part-time. Especially since its politics he’d rather do in short bursts in order to be a full-time international khiladi. Luckily, UPA-II’s indulgent. The NCP chief’s not the only one to get a respite (from worrying about the price of spuds at sabzi mandis). Take the chemicals and fertilisers minister. He does long bursts – Maldives, here he comes! – of gallivanting. For, he’s overworked as well. What can be more back-breaking than organising resistance to reforms?     Or take Mamata, multitasking between the city of hoped-for electoral joy and the national capital. Is it surprising that the lady some call the “Union minister of Bengal” has no fascination for berths (unless they’re in trains) herself? When newly elected UPA-II had offered her a choice of ministries in 2009 as a valued ally, it’s said she’d grandly refused it all save the Railways. Today, she could bequeath even that sole gaddi to a nominee. Provided the Congress is game for a quit pro quo.     Isn’t there anyone who sings, my sweet load? Sure there is. Bring it on, these rare role-jugglers say. Like Pranab-da, once foreign minister, acting finance minister and even de facto prime minister when the PM was briefly indisposed. Nor does he lack a self-sacrificing spirit. Asked why the top job eludes him despite his CV and stamina, he was quoted saying PMs need fluency in Hindi! They don’t make diplomats like that anymore.     To conclude: our netas are noble. They don’t fear Pawar shortage or even short-change. Especially when it’s for a good pause...sorry, cause.
Food inflation rises to 12.81% New Delhi: Food inflation rose to 12.81% for the week ended July 3 on the back of supply disruptions due to monsoon showers and high fuel costs but inflation for fuel and related items slid to 14.27% in the week from over 18% in the previous week on account of the base effect.     Food inflation was at 12.63% in the previous week and has been declining over the preceding two weeks. For the week under review, rice, wheat, pulses and onions became costlier in the range of 0.03-3.8% on a week-on-week basis as there was supply disruption due to floods in parts of the country. But potatoes became cheaper by 0.85% and fruits by 0.91%.     Analysts said the rise in food inflation was expected as the hike in fuel prices affected delivered price of vegetables and fruits. The fuel price hike will take time to be reflected in a few weeks. TNN
THE LOST SUPPER As food prices spiral and politicians serve up empty promises, the common man is finding ingenious ways to make do Shreya Roy Chowdhury | TNN     If you believe the government, the dizzying rate of India’s GDP puts us in a select group of emerging economies. But if you look at the food on the aam admi’s table, it tells a different growth story — inflation. With this figure rising every week, people are cutting down on expenses — eating less and eating less healthy food. The poor are buying overripe vegetables and shifting from idlis to the cheaper rice gruel. The middle-class is cutting down on vegetables and milk. Restaurants are reducing portions and diluting curries. Rising prices are affecting us all — they are gnawing into household budgets and restaurant profits alike and people are using every trick in the book to manage this rise.     Sanjay Munjal of Ginger Moon restaurant in Delhi’s Khan Market says he has tightened controls, with “an audit every three days to assess our purchase, sales and consumption to prevent waste. Earlier we stocked up for two-three days, now we take daily stock”. This has helped, bringing Munjal’s costs down by 5-10%. “The inflation has affected our margins but we’ve decided to absorb it for now. But if the prices rise any further — say another 5-10% — we’ll have to increase rates,” says Munjal.     Sooner or later, that’s what may happen. “Although we have contracted yearly prices, pressure is coming from vendors to revise rates,” says Monish Gujral of Moti Mahal Delux in Delhi. Restaurants like his have increased “menu forecasting”, which means determining attendance, portions and items that’ll be ordered. They are also increasingly half-cooking dishes in order to prevent waste. But some restaurants have been forced to raise prices straight off. Santhosh Shetty, who runs Vaibhav Hotel in Andheri, Mumbai, admits they charge extra for dal with the regular thali. “I started doing this when I realized dal alone takes 25% of the cost,” he says.     Munjal’s Ginger Moon, Gujral’s Moti Mahal and Shetty’s Vaibhav are not the only ones. Food price inflation has put eateries across the country under tremendous pressure. And it is changing the way people eat out. Deepak Sharma, former secretary-general, Federation of Hotel & Restaurant Associations of India, says “Restaurants have taken items off, offering limited, cost-effective menus; a few have even reduced their portions. Some have also revised their menus.”     He adds, “The cost of running restaurants has gone up but sales have decreased by 15-20%.”     Meanwhile, restaurants in Delhi have had to factor in something else as well. “Mid-level ones need to upgrade for the Commonwealth Games — that’s another investment,” says Sharma, “If they increase prices now, sales will decrease further.”     Some have already made their decision. The single-chicken, single-egg roll kathi kabab at Nizam Kathi Kabab in Delhi is Rs 100 for just a few more days. Soon, it will cost Rs 110. Nizam’s mutton korma, which was priced at Rs 170, will go up to Rs 200. “We were functioning almost on a no-profit-no-loss basis. We will raise the prices by about 10% in the next 15 days,” says Ved Prakash of Nizam.     No one is sure whether that will help. Mumbai restaurants that have already raised prices — by about 15% in the last few months — say they’re still struggling. “Our profit margins have come down by almost 40%,” says Chandrahas Shetty, president of the Federation of Hotel Owners Association of Maharashtra. “Food inflation is hitting the restaurants hard,” says Sharma. Tomatoes, onions and potatoes are important ingredients for restaurants. “Increase in their prices affects eateries,” he says. “Salads were also important for the restaurant industry as there were large profit margins on them. But now that has decreased.”     Raising prices is particularly difficult for outlets like heavily subsidized college canteens. “We need to write to the committee to hike our prices,” says Gaganjeet Singh of the Hindu College canteen in Delhi University. It’s worse for Dharmendra Kumar who sells chhole-bhature in Mayur Vihar. He charges Rs 10 for two bhaturas. He’s in no position to raise his prices because his customers anyway think he should be providing three bhaturas instead of two. “Price of cooking gas has increased and I need six-seven cylinders in a month. I’d keep Rs 150-200 as pocket money, now I make do with Rs 50 a month,” he says. Street vendors in Mumbai have seen their narrow profit margins falling. Murugan S, who runs a food stall near Borivali station, says, “We’ve been diluting the sambhar with water and replacing it with coconut chutney every alternate day.” It is an unpopular move because his clients demand free sambhar.     Eating out may be getting difficult for the aam admi. But so is eating in. For most middle-class and working-class families, inflation simply means less of everything. “In the homes I work, they use one tomato where they previously used two; cook 250 gms of paneer instead of a half-kilo,” says Radha Dalal, 37, who cooks in nine homes in South Delhi. She has cut back herself by no longer buying milk.     It is a curse to be dirt poor in the time of inflation. Saraswathi, 60, says she hasn’t had three square meals a single day in six months. She sells coconuts outside Chennai’s Kapaleeswarar temple and earns Rs 1,500 a month. Rising prices has caused her to forego meals to feed the men and children while she and her daughter-in-law eat rice gruel to get by. “We have kanji (gruel) in the morning. Earlier, we used to have idlis or dosas. For lunch, I use less dal for sambhar and no vegetables. Because a cylinder costs Rs 315, I cook once a day,” she says.     As food bills spiral out of control, the poor are falling into the debt trap. Valli, 40, a domestic help in Chennai earns Rs 3,000 a month and owes Rs 3 lakh to the local moneylender. Now, she buys rice from fair price shops and vegetables from vendors selling supermarket rejects. “I buy four tomatoes for Rs 10. One is usually spoilt but it is a good bargain,” says Valli. It is better than going back to the moneylender.     (With reports from Kim Arora in Delhi, Viju B in Mumbai and Revathi Ramanan in Chennai)
Raining cheaper vegetables: MORE ON YOUR PLATE Somit Sen | TNN     It is arguably the best piece of news for harried Mumbaikars in quite some time. Costlier piped gas and hikes in auto and taxi fares had sent household budgets, reeling under high food prices, for a toss. Now, after being on an upward spiral for months together, prices of vegetables have finally come down.     Prices of most vegetables have dipped by Rs 10 to Rs 20 per kg in the past couple of weeks, bringing back smiles on the faces of customers. Many who enquired with local vendors about the sudden dip were informed that “stocks were aplenty” in the wholesale market at Vashi. Since the supply was more, the traders decided to go for a price correction.     Said Ashok Keharwal, a wholesale dealer in potatoes and onions, “Except for potatoes, onions and a few other items, prices of most vegetables have come down since mid-July. As for onions, the price would dip only after the Ganesh festival season, when farmers flood the market with fresh stocks. Potatoes may see a correction next February.” Vegetable trader Yudishtir Chaurasia said, “Due to heavy rains, it is not feasible for hoarders to stock vegetables. It is released in the retail market, thereby creating more supply and bringing down prices.”     Prices of lady’s finger, cauliflower and cabbage were in the range of Rs 30 to Rs 40 per kg until the first week of July. It is now available for Rs 20 to Rs 30 per kg, depending on the quality of the vegetable. “If you are among the last few customers for the day, you can also bargain for as low as Rs 15 per kg,’’ said Sanjit Jaiswal, a hawker. Prices of tomatoes were as high as Rs 40 to Rs 50 per kg in June. It can now be bought in the range of Rs 24 to Rs 30 per kg from your roadside vendor.     Said vendor Rajesh Yadav, “In the month of shravan (during the monsoon), several customers go on a monthlong fast. They abstain from eating many vegetables and that is another reason why prices dip during this period.” Another vendor Ravindra Tiwari, in the business for 34 years, said, “Prices usually go up during summer and were skyrocketing in March, April and May.”     Capsicum is cheaper by 25% and yam (suran) by a whopping 50%. The Indian tendli which was available for more than Rs 40 per kg is now as low as Rs 24 per kg. Green chilli sales have picked up after prices dropped by 20%, said Rajendra Prasad Kushwaha, in the chilli trade for three decades.     Most markets are flooded with bottle gourd, whose prices have come down by Rs 5 to Rs 10, said vendor Rampyare Gupta. He added the prices may not remain constant as the markets were unpredictable after August. “The prices could spiral again,’’ said Keharwal, adding Mumbaikars should make the best of the present opportunity.     For those who prefer salads, this is the best time to buy cucumber, tomatoes, carrots and beetroots. You can also squeeze some lime on your dishes, which is now 50% cheaper. “We hope for more buyers. Usually, there is a drop in customers during heavy rains,’’ Tiwari added. ...Difficult to put a finger on pulses Somit Sen | TNN Mumbai: Though prices of vegetables have dipped in recent weeks, pulses (dal) and sugar remain expensive. Said Sanjay Gada, a dealer in pulses, “Tur dal prices are hovering between Rs 60 to Rs 80 per kg, moong dal is at Rs 90. A few months ago, one could buy moong dal for as low as Rs 60 per kg.” He stated prices of pulses may not dip in coming weeks, and there was speculation they would rise marginally. According to a member of the Grains, Rice, Oilseeds Merchant Association, the moong dal crop was badly affected some months ago, and there was shortage of moong and urad dals. Urad, available for Rs 65 per kg two months back, is now Rs 80 per kg. Chana dal remains at Rs 36 to Rs 40 per kg. Said Chetan Gada, another dealer, “Prices of pulses vary from suburb to suburb. In some parts of Mumbai like Juhu, premium quality pulses are being sold for as high as Rs 120 per kg. And there are fixed customers who buy it in large quantities.” The price of sugar had gone up as high as Rs 50 per kg earlier this year, and it came down to Rs 28 per kg. But prices shot up by Rs 2 a few weeks ago, and is expected to go up by Rs 3, said sources in the sugar trade. Former MP Kirit Somaiya said, “It is not just sugar, but also rice and wheat which has seen a drastic rise in prices between 2007 and 2010.” He stated that rice was available for Rs 14 per kg, wheat for Rs 12 per kg and sugar for Rs 16 per kg in 2007-08. The price jumped to Rs 22 per kg for rice, Rs 14 for wheat and Rs 18 for sugar in 2008-09. “It went up alarmingly to more than 50% in 2010,’’ he said. The price of rice was Rs 48 per kg, wheat Rs 29 per kg and sugar Rs 50 per kg in January this year. Sabudana prices are also up from Rs 50 per kg to Rs 65/70 per kg. The prices were not uniform across Mumbai as retailers usually added a few percentage as transportation charges. For example, shops and roadside hawkers/vendors in Kalyan and Thane would charge less than those staying in the western suburbs, which is far from the Vashi wholesale market, a trader stated.
Heavy rains help bring down vegetable prices IT’S POURING GOOD NEWS AND BAD FOR THE CITY Somit Sen | TNN Mumbai: It’s raining good news. Thanks to the monsoon, the prices of most vegetable in the city have dipped by Rs 10-20 per kg over the past few weeks, bringing more food to Mumbaikars’ plates. But potatoes and onions are still pricey, as are pulses and sugar.     Vegetable trader Yudishtir Chaurasia said, “Due to heavy rains, hoarders don’t find it feasible to stock vegetables and release more of them in the retail market, generating higher supply, which pushes down prices.’’     Barring potatoes and onions, veggies like cauliflower, lady’s finger, cabbage and capsicum are now cheaper than before.     However, pulses—especially moong dal—and sugar remain expensive. Dealers blame the moong dal crop, which was destroyed some time back, for this and say their rates will remain high, as will sugar prices—likely to go up by Rs 3 per kg.     Bombay Sugar Merchants Association president Ashok Jain claimed sugar-factory cartels had fixed a higher minimum price.Jain said the wholesale price of sugar was earlier Rs 2,350-Rs 2,600 per quintal,and the retail price Rs 30 per kg. But with the recent increase in ex-factory prices to Rs 2,900 per quintal, retail prices will also shoot up. Transporters threaten to go on nation-wide strike from August 6 Mumbai: Transporters across the country will go on an indefinite strike from August 6 to protest against the recent fuel price hike, exorbitant toll rates, corruption by police/RTO, among other issues. The strike in Maharashtra will adversely affect transportation of vegetables and essential commodities. The stir will also cause losses to the tune of crores to several factories, heavy industries and affect import/export.     “We have decided to go for a nationwide ‘chakka jaam’ from the midnight of August 5,’’ said G R Shanmugappa, president of All-India Motor Transport Congress. “More than 62 lakh trucks across the country will be off the roads, causing revenue losses to the tune of nearly Rs 5,000 crore,’’ he told TOI after concluding a meeting of transport associations in Delhi on Monday.     TOI had first reported about the strike call given by transport unions in southern states—Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh, Kerala and Tamil Nadu—and that Maharashtra and other states were expected to join the agitation.     “The government has turned a deaf ear to our demands,’’ said Bal Malkit Singh, president of the Bombay Goods Transport Association. “The all-India body had given a deadline of three months to the Centre and the latter has ignored all our demands,’’ he said.     In Maharashtra, close to 15 lakh trucks will be off the roads.
A BREATHER LONG DUE Food inflation dips to single digit TIMES NEWS NETWORK New Delhi: For the first time this year, food inflation shrunk to single digit at less than 10% in the week ended July 17, providing the government a much-needed shield to ward off the Opposition attack in and outside Parliament over rising food and fuel prices.     Continuing its downtrend for the second week in a row, the index slid 2.8 percentage points in the week under review from 12.47% in the preceding week. If the trend continues, it will also help headline inflation to cool and ease pressure on further tightening of key rates. The latest slide, greatly due to the high base affect, has been driven by falling prices of vegetables, especially potato and onion. This is the first time food inflation has come down to single digit since the government started giving separate figures for primary articles in November 2009.     “It is a very welcome news. Inflation has moved pretty much on cues as I had expected. However, it should not be overinterpreted,’’ the government’s chief economic adviser Kaushik Basu said. Basu’s caution is not misplaced. Thursday’s data still shows pulses, milk and fruits becoming costlier by 21.23%, 19% and 12.14%, respectively, from the year-ago period.
A Nation Forced To Go On DISTRESS DIET Nearly 15 months of double-digit food inflation has led most Indians to make painful cuts in their daily meals. TOI finds poor families across the country being forced into dietary choices that are sowing the seeds of an acutely malnourished future generation Rukmini Shrinivasan | TIG     After nearly 15 straight months of double-digit food inflation, the government announced on Thursday that food inflation had dipped to 9.67% for the week that ended on July 17. That’s small consolation for most Indians, particularly the poor, who have seen a relentless assault on their food budgets that has resulted in essential items being dropped from the menu, giving rise to a whole new enforced “austerity diet”.     Since no systematic study has been done yet on changes in food habits since the beginning of the commodity price spiral in late 2008, TOI spoke to families across various cities and heard, firsthand, of the distress diversification they are being forced to undertake.     First off, families are eating smaller quantities or less often than before. Saraswathi, a coconut-seller in Chennai, says that it has been six months since she ate three meals in a day. Dal and milk are off the tables of the urban poor across the country. In Mumbai, Shakuntala Chakrabarty, a domestic worker, has had to cut moong dal out of her family’s menu while in Guwahati, peanut-seller Ram Vilas Lohar hasn’t been able to afford masoor dal after its price touched Rs 96 per kg.     In addition, green vegetables and tomatoes are also increasingly unaffordable in cities. In Chennai, Valli, a domestic help, is forced to buy overripe tomatoes rejected by supermarkets, while in Mumbai, Shanti Yadav frets over not being able to give her children carrots and beans any more. Fruits are virtually a luxury. In Faridkot’s Sanjay Nagar locality, Swaran Singh has since his childhood associated summers with mangoes, but his children have never tasted the fruit. In Chennai, Nagamma, a sweeper in a corporation school, can only afford bananas nowadays.     In a country with a large population of vegetarians, the absence of milk and dal from the daily diet means that the poor in India, the bulk of them employed in manual labour, are simply not getting adequate proteins. Non-vegetarian families, like the Prasads on the eastern fringes of Kolkata, are being forced to reduce their meat intake and eat the less nutritious parts of chicken and mutton.     Substitutes vary from region to region. Families are reporting that they dilute their food, whether it is kanji (rice gruel) in place of idlis and dosas (that require more rice batter) in Tamil Nadu or watery dal that is made to last six times longer in Madhya Pradesh.     Across the country, poor families also reported difficulties in accessing subsidized grain from public distribution system outlets — many also complained of poor quality of grain — strengthening the arguments for greater supervision and wider access of PDS. In states with a better functioning PDS, such as Tamil Nadu where the scheme is universal, poor families, like that of Valli in Chennai, said subsidized grain had served as a buffer against starvation.     Most worryingly, hapless parents across the country, including those in agriculturally prosperous Punjab, said that they were giving their children more nutritious food five-six years ago than what they are able to afford now. In Ahmedabad’s Gokuldham settlement, Mona Rajput has had to make the painful decision to stop giving milk to her fouryear-old son so that her five-month-old infant can get some. In a country in which half of all children are already malnourished, the seemingly unstoppable rise in food prices is threatening to sow the seeds of a dangerously malnourished future generation.     These retrograde steps have demoralized people who had hoped for a better life. In Bhopal’s Mata Mandir area, Babybai Girmiye, a domestic worker, said, “As a child, I saw my father going to work in the fields with a couple of rotis, a piece of onion and salt tied in a piece of cloth. That was his lunch. I married a man working in the city hoping for a better life and a little more food. But over the past six months, I can see those days of roti and salt coming back to my life.”     Neither the international commodity price spiral of 2007, nor the failed 2009 monsoon can explain away the food price assault. While food prices the world over escalated in 2007 and 2008, they stabilized in 2009. But in India, the spiral continued. Food prices in the country began to rise in late 2008, much before the monsoon forecasts of 2009, and have continued to squeeze family budgets well into 2010’s much better monsoon. CHENNAI Saraswathi | 65 Income | Rs 5,000 per month Tender coconut-seller outside Kapaleeswarar temple     It has been more than six months since Saraswathi had three meals in a day. With a family income of less than Rs 5,000 a month, Saraswathi has drastically cut back on consumption. “We have kanji (rice gruel) in the morning instead of idlis or dosas with chutney earlier. For lunch, I use less dal for sambhar and rasam. Also because a cylinder costs Rs 315, I only cook once in the morning.” Valli | 40 Income | Rs 3,000 per month Domestic help     Valli earns Rs 3,000 a month and has to repay a loan of Rs 3 lakh she borrowed from a local money lender. Her alcoholic husband doesn’t go to work most days. She has drastically reduced the amount of dal, spices, oil, milk she uses everyday. Valli is grateful for the government’s onerupee-a-kg rice scheme. For vegetables, Valli buys small amounts from vendors. “I buy four tomatoes for around Rs 10. Out of four, one is usually spoilt because most of the vegetables are rejects from the supermarket nearby which no one buys, but it is still a good bargain when compared to buying a kilo of tomatoes for Rs 40.” Nagamma | 65 Income | Rs 2,000 per month Sweeper in a corporation school and domestic help     Nagamma earns Rs 2,000 a month while her husband who runs a push cart also earns a similar amount. “We eat only once a day because we can only afford that much. About a year back things were not this bad. I also used to get a meal in the houses I used to work in. But now because of the high prices, even they don’t provide any food,” she says.     (Inputs by Revathi Ramanan) DELHI Jagdish | 36 Income | Rs 3,000 per month Kulfi-seller     Jagdish has a monthly income of Rs 3,000 with which he supports his wife and four little children. “We mix water in milk to feed our kids. As they grow up, our problems will also rise because the prices of many vegetables make it impossible for us to provide them a healthy diet.” Haji Shahbuddin | 60 Income | Rs 4,000 per month Vegetable vendor | DARYAGANJ     Shahbuddin makes 4,000 per month selling vegetables that he himself finds increasingly difficult to buy. “All vegetable prices have risen. I see people who used to take 1 kg of tomatoes buy only ½ kg now. People are cutting down on the most expensive vegetables. Peas, tomatoes and even onions are very expensive,” he says. Mohammad Arif | 27 Income | Rs 3,500 per month Rickshawpuller     Arif’s monthly income of Rs 3,500 helps him support his wife but it is the future that has him worried. “Right now we can just about manage food for the two of us. We are reluctant to begin a family because of the prices,” he admits.     (Inputs by Shreya Maheshwari) GUWAHATI Ram Vilas Lohar | 45 Income | Rs 5,000 per month Rickshawpuller     For Lohar, masoor dal has become an item of luxury. “Nowadays our meal mostly comprises rice and fried vegetable. Even prices of vegetables are also going up like anything,” says Lohar.     (Inputs by Oinam Sunil) MUMBAI Shanti Yadav | 32 Income | Rs 4,000 per month Maid working in Borivli, lives in the Kanderpada area     We have stopped buying tur dal as it has crossed the Rs 100 mark. Instead, we buy cheap fish for Rs 20 and make a curry and have it with cheap rice,” she says. Yadav’s seven-year-old son is fond of carrots and beans. “One kilo of carrots now costs Rs 45 and one kilo of beans costs Rs 90. My son will never be able to eat these again,” she says regretfully. Shakuntala Chakrabarty | 58 Income | Rs 15,000 per month Domestic worker     Despite her son getting a job and their family income now Rs 15,000 per month, Chakrabarty has been forced to cut moong dal out of the menu, as also more expensive vegetables. “Most days, I have curd and puffed rice. We have chicken once a month and fish too once a month. It is depressing, being a Bengali but not being able to afford fish,” she says. (Inputs by Viju B and Sudeshna Chatterjee) KOLKATA Girija Prasad | 55 Income | Rs 2,500 per month Peon with a private tea company     Girija Prasad and his wife Rina have rice with bitter gourd. The couple has saved for their daughter some chicken: Scraps that are usually thrown away or sold for one or two rupees a piece. “We can only rarely afford ‘real’ meat as chicken is Rs 120 per kg and mutton Rs 280,” says Rina. “Earlier, we could afford milk and fruits. But we had to take them off our diet so that we can buy rice and vegetables,” the 39-year-old says. “We need 1 kg of rice and half a kilo of flour every day. Other essential items like vegetables, oil and daal taken together, food costs a minimum of Rs 100 per day. We have to borrow almost every month to cover all expenses,” she adds. Shambhunath Das| 40 Income | Rs 1,500 per month Labourer | BELIAGHATA ROAD     Das, who is physically challenged, earns around Rs 1500 a month. “We rarely have dal now as it has become very expensive. Our meals are mostly CUT-PRICE LIVING: Differently-abled Kolkata labourer Shambhunath Das’s wife Sumati has taken fish and eggs off the menu. What’s more, the family rarely gets to eat dal either rice-saag or mashed potatoes. Earlier we could afford fish and eggs,” says his wife, Sumati. “Things were not so bad earlier,” she added.     (Inputs by Swati Sengupta) NAGPUR Kamala Durve | 35 Income | Rs 4,000 per month Housemaid     Despite taking several jobs through the day, Durve is finding it hard to make ends meet. “We make do with just plain dal and roti. I cannot buy any vegetables as my salary has remained the same. My children are complaining that they are tired of eating potatoes and dal. But do I have any other option?” Deepak Wadodkar | 38 Income | Rs 4,500 per month Driver     Ihave to wait for several days, until I get my salary, to be able to buy vegetables. Recently, we had to make do with eating sprouts as they are cheaper. But my kids are getting digestive disorders due to this.”     (Inputs by Meghnad Sahasrabhojanee) FARIDKOT Jagir Kaur & Kewal Singh | Early 30s Income | Rs 4,200 per month Domestic worker; daily labourer | SANJAY NAGAR     The couple’s joint income of Rs 4,200 is simply not enough to feed their young children, Kuljit (13) and Jodha (7). “My daughter Kuljit has never tasted milk in her 13 years of life after breastfeeding,” says Jagir Kaur. She adds that her son has had no milk for the last two years as at Rs 30 per litre, it is simply unaffordable.     (Inputs by Balwant Garg) OPERATION DROUGHT: Increasing prices have made milk simply unaffordable BHOPAL Babybai Girimiye | 37 Income | Rs 2,500 per month Housemaid in Mata Mandir area     Girmiye earns Rs 2,500 a month and her son Rahul works as a Matador driver. Her regular dinner these days is “thesa (dried red chillies, burnt over the fire and then powdered) with roti. She recollects that as a child she saw her father going to work in the fields with a couple of rotis, a piece of onion and salt tied in a piece of cloth. That was his lunch. “I married a man working in the city hoping for a better life and a little more food. But over the past six months, I can see those days of roti with salt coming back into my life. We have to think twice about having a second cup of tea because milk is so expensive, she says.     (Inputs by Suchananda Gupta) JAIPUR Shanti Rajput | 40 Income | Rs 6,200 per month Domestic worker | JAWAHAR NAGAR SLUM     Rajput’s husband Om Prakash is a daily wager and has no regular income. “I earn around Rs 6,200 per month and run the house,’’ says Shanti, who admits that with five children and three adults in the house, the money is far from enough. “Cooking gas, milk, vegetables, food-grains — the prices for everything are touching the sky. In order to ensure one cup of milk for her youngest child, 7-year-old Ajay, the family has restricted themselves to one cup of tea per day only. The family gets flour and dal at subsidised rates from the ration shop in the area and though, they know that the quality is not quite good, they have little choice. “We have a ration card and are lucky that we can get dal at subsidised rates. Many around us have stopped eating dal all together,’’ she says.     (Inputs by Palak Nandi) AHMEDABAD Ranvir Rajput | 55 Income | Rs 6,500 pm Security guard | GOKULDHAM SETTLEMENT IN VEJALPUR     For the Rajput family, one meal every day is potatoes with bajri rotla. Not that it is one of their favourite meals but the family confesses it cannot afford to put greens and dal-rice on the menu daily.     Three adults of this 10-member family work full time to earn Rs 6,500 per month. After paying a rent of Rs 1,800 per month, an electricity bill of Rs 300, most of the money now goes into fighting hunger. The head of family, Ranvir, works as a security guard, eldest son Kanha drives an auto-rickshaw while mother Hansa works as a domestic help.     Mona, Ranvir’s daughter, who lives with her parents, has had to stop giving milk to her four-year-old son Sahil.     “The choice is between giving milk to the five-month-old infant and to the boy. My heart breaks when Sahil looks longingly at the glass of milk which is now reserved for the infant,” Mona confesses.     (Inputs by Radha Sharma) CHANDIGARH Ram Krishan | 50 Income | Rs 6,000 per month Banana-seller | KISHANGARH     When Krishan returns home, he has hardly anything in his shopping bag. “I have five members in my family and it has become difficult to run the household. Things are so bad, it’s almost a question of survival now. We get chana dal, rice, atta and kerosene from the ration shop,” he says.     “We can no longer think of providing milk to our two children. Neither can we buy arhar dal anymore, it’s touched Rs 75 a kg in Chandigarh and moong dal comes for as high as Rs 80 as kg,” says Krishan’s wife, Radha.     “Aloo matar (potato with peas) used to be a regular fare in our house not too long ago. But, matar now costs Rs 75-80 a kg. It’s out of reach,” she adds.     (Inputs by Anand Bodh)
S O M E R E S P I T E Food inflation at 13-month low TIMES NEWS NETWORK New Delhi: Food inflation dipped to a 13-month low of 9.53% in the week ended July 24, continuing its slide for the second week in a row and providing a much-needed breather to the government which has been under sustained Opposition attack over rising prices.     The index of wholesale prices of farm products declined 0.14 percentage points from 9.67% a week ago as monsoon intensified across the country to give an impetus to sowing of rice and lentils. This has raised hopes of a good crop and lower prices.     Last year, food inflation was at 14.58% in the corresponding period. The present decline, thus, is also partly due to the high base effect. Finance minister Pranab Mukherjee, however, told Parliament that steps taken by the government had brought the index down from its high of over 21%. He also said RBI was keeping a watch on the situation.     Analysts expect food inflation to decline further after new crops reach the markets but said it won’t prompt RBI to relax its tight monetary stance. But major items in the fuel inflation saw no change in prices, as the fuel price hike had a onetime impact on prices. However, aviation turbine fuel fell by 4%, leading to a decline in fuel, power, light and lubricants inflation to 14.26%.     Among food items, vegetables turned cheaper by 3%, sea fish by 2% and fruits by 2.34% compared to the previous week. Compared to last year, vegetables were less expensive by 17.32%. Among vegetables, potatoes were cheaper by 41% and onions by over 4%.     According to NCAER chief statistician Rajesh Shukla, improved monsoons had raised expectations of a better crop and there was also an increase in output.
VALUE FOR MONEY July inflation in single digit, first time since Jan TIMES NEWS NETWORK New Delhi: The government’s claim that prices have stabilised and would come down soon was proven true on Monday when it was announced that inflation rate for July had fallen to single digit, 9.97%, for the first time in five months.     The figure has certainly given the government a muchneeded relief as a coordinated Opposition onslaught on price rise had completely paralysed both the Houses of Parliament during the first week of the ongoing Monsoon session.     Finance minister Pranab Mukherjee said prices would fluctuate during the monsoon but would stabilise at the end of the season. “For vegetables, fruits, milk and some seasonal food items, the government has no control. But they are moderating,’’ he said.     The FM said the lower inflation was also a result of RBI policy rate review. “Policy rates had some impact but there are also base factors,’’ Mukherjee said, adding that the drop in prices would continue.     The wholesale price index (WPI) inflation had entered double digits in February and declined 0.58% in July from 10.55% in June, as the prices of potatoes, onions and cement moderated.     Planning Commission deputy chairman Montek Singh Ahluwalia pegged it at 6% by December, similar to the projection made by the PM’s economic advisory council, the finance ministry and the RBI. He, however, said the July inflation was “still too high’’.     In July, inflation showed downward trend mainly on account of year-on-year decline in prices of essential items like potato (-44%), vegetables (- 15%), cement (-8%), onion (- 7%) and edible oil (-0.34%).     Inflation was at 10.55% in June, while for May it was revised upwards to 11.14% from the provisional number of 10.16%. Inflation entered the double digit territory in February when it climbed to 10.06%.
Food inflation dips, but RBI won’t cut rates New Delhi: Food inflation declined by over a percentage point to 10.35% during the week ended August 7 on cheaper vegetables, especially potato and onion. But the fall may not prompt the Reserve Bank to reverse its tight money policy stance at the next review on September 16.     Inflation in food items declined by 1.05 percentage points compared to 11.4% in the previous week. It was 14.18% a year ago and had crossed 20% in December 2009.     “We will continue to see weekly fluctuations, ups and downs. Although the monsoon has been good, in certain agricultural areas like Satara in Maharashtra there have been supply disruptions due to floods,” Axis Bank chief economist Saugata Bhattacharya said.     “However, we do not think the RBI is likely to go for any major policy change just due to the food inflation figure for a week. Factors like manufacturing output and WPI inflation will also factor in it,” he added.     The RBI, which has been tightening the monetary policy to tame rising prices, is scheduled to come out with its first mid-quarterly review on September 16. AGENCIES
RAIN YET TO DAMPEN Scorching Prices Retailers Wait For Wholesalers To Pass On Benefits Of Good Crop Bella Jaisinghani | TNN     If at all the exceptionally robust monsoon of 2010 is having a positive impact on food crops, the retail market remains ignorant till date. Well-meaning statistics show that food inflation stood at 10.05% for the week ended August 14 versus 10.35% the previous week. It had stood at 13.45% for the same week last year. However, these figures do precious little to assuage the average citizen whose household budget continues to show an alarming increase.     “We will only feel the effects of a good monsoon once the next crop is harvested,’’ says a shop owner in Andheri who still sells moong dal for Rs 100 per kg. “Until then, short-term arrivals like vegetables may be benefited by the current spell of rain.’’     Not so, say vendors waiting for relief from wholesalers to pass on the benefit to their customers. The simultaneous Shravan and Ramzan has caused demand for vegetables as well as meat to rise. Prospects for price reduction do not look too good in the near future either, with Eid and Ganeshotsav set to coincide on September 10-11.     In fact, the onset of the festive season when Hindus & Muslims fast and feast has further sharpened the divide between official figures and ground reality. On Friday, moong dal sold for Rs 98-108 per kg, tuvar dal marginally better at Rs 84-90 per kg. “Vegetables like cauliflower, cluster beans, green peas and french beans all cost Rs 40-60 per kg. A family of four would need to buy at least a quarter kilo per meal, not to mention other ingredients that go into the dish, so you can imagine how the burden grows,’’ says Jogeshwari resident Meenakshi Joshi.     Haji Hyder Azam who heads the BJP’s minority morcha has organised an ‘iftar’ for around 2,000 people Sunday. “Having borne the brunt of rising onion prices in an election, we are shocked to see how the cost of every item has risen manifold. “Humein bhi mehngai maar gayi (We have become the victims of price rise ourselves),’’ says a party functionary working out logistics of Sunday’s ‘daawat’.     From Cyclone Phyan to a poor monsoon, citizens have been fed all sorts of reasons for continued food inflation, though experts say the two did not damage farm yields as is being projected. “One hopes this year’s bountiful rains will mitigate our worries by the end of 2010, as the prime minister promised,’’ says businessman Shamim Khan. “Hopefully, we will not be told the rain caused crops to fail.’’
Inflation weighs heavy on feast & fast of faith Bella Jaisinghani | TNN Mumbai: The two communities in the midst of Shravan and Ramzan observances complain dearly of food prices. While one is burdened by vegetable prices hovering at stratospheric heights, the persevering ‘rozedar’ rues how his lavish spread of kebabs and biryani has shrunk to anaemic bhajiyas.     On one hand, an increased demand for vegetables owing to Shravan rituals has cancelled the advantage of a good monsoon. As the main characters of the cast including cauliflower,cluster beans, lady’s finger and green peas remain pricey at Rs 40-60 per kg, people are purchasing few varieties of vegetables at one go and in small quantities.     Unlike Navratri, when vegetable prices tend to dip for it is a period of fasting, during Shravan most Hindus consume only vegetarian food for a month. “So prices that would have ordinarily come down due to a good monsoon continue to remain in the region of Rs 40-60 per kg,’’ says Andheri vendor Manish Yadav.     Garlic has become the villain of the piece, having shot up from Rs 70-80 per kg in June to Rs 100-130 in August. “Meat preparations as well as ordinary vegetarian food are all tasteless without garlic. Now vendors in our locality in Lokhandwala Complex are selling small pouches of peeled garlic weighing 50-100 grams to soften the blow,’’ says housewife Anita Hasija.     Ever the leveller, inflation has got the better of Ramzan festivities too. After 4 pm, small queues of women line up at the ‘tabelas’ in Jogeshwari to purchase buffalo milk for the evening ‘iftar’. “Milk prices have risen twice over the last four months. We make do with half a litre for Rs 20,’’ says Shabina Israr Khan, who cooks for a family of six. Farooque Malkani, who owns one of the largest cowsheds in the area, says milk sells for Rs 40 per litre in villages of Haryana and Punjab, what to speak of Mumbai. “We source our buffaloes from there and people in the north relate similar sob stories,’’ he says.     “The entire scene of iftar has changed this year,’’ says Farrah Abdul Kader, an office manager. “We get far smaller quantities even though we pay much more. A small packet of average quality dates, which we must break our roza with, comes for Rs 55-65. As for fruit, the less said the better. Unlike before when large groups of ‘rozedars’ would sit around an array of non-vegetarian delicacies, now four or five people gather over small bowls of ‘bhajiyas’ or fritters as Rs 200-300 per meal fetches precious little.’’ Farrah works with an organisation that does charity during Ramzan, providing madrasas Rs 500 for children every day, but rues the sum is able to buy so little. Recalling how the rise in onion prices had felled the BJP government, Anita wonders why the Indian electorate has become so placid despite facing a third year of economic assault. Adds Farrah, “The poor have accepted their circumstances while the rich do not know or care how much rice or vegetables cost. But the middle class is dying every day.’’
N O B R E AT H E R Vegetables cheaper, but food inflation up TIMES NEWS NETWORK New Delhi: After declining for two weeks in a row, food inflation increased marginally to 10.86% in the week ended August 31 on the back of rising prices of cereals, fruits and milk. Food inflation was a tad over 10% during the previous week, while it had stood at 14.8% a year ago.     The rise in food inflation came about despite a decline in the prices of vegetables, especially onions and potatoes. Analysts say the food inflation will stabilise in the next few months and may decline to single-digit level, on account a good monsoon and kharif crop.     The RBI is expected to continue on the path of a tight monetary policy and is likely to use marginal rise in key rates in conjunction with measures to keep liquidity in the financial system in check. The central bank has raised key policy rates thrice in the recent past to check inflation.     According to Crisil chief economist D K Joshi, food prices will see minor fluctuations for a few weeks before settling into single digit in the last quarter as markets start getting fresh farm supplies. The RBI, he said, was unlikely to make any changes in its monetary policy stance, based on upswing in the food inflation during just one week.     On an annual basis, cereals turned expensive by 6.67% for the week under review. In this group, prices of pulses soared by over 14%, while rice and wheat increased by 8% and 7%, respectively. However, vegetable prices went down substantially. Compared to last year, vegetables were cheaper by nearly 10%. Among vegetables, potatoes were cheaper by 51.2%, while onions declined by 8.9% on an annual basis.     Facing the Opposition attack in the Lok Sabha on the issue of price rise, finance minister Pranab Mukherjee had last month sought the cooperation of the states in taming food prices, while dismissing the charge that the Centre is insensitive to the plight of common man.     Overall inflation based on wholesale prices had declined to single digit in July at 9.9%, after being in double digits for five months.
Who’s Afraid Of Price Rise To assume that people are willing to live with higher inflation will be a serious mistake Deepak Nayyar     Inflation is in the news. Double-digit inflation persists, concentrated in prices of food and necessities. The retail prices of pulses are in the range of Rs 80-100 per kg. Seasonal vegetables retail at Rs 30-40 per kg. Yet, our pink newspapers believe there is little reason for concern. There is a boom in purchases of consumer durables. The middle class is prospering. The poor are better-off with the NREGA. And people are no longer afraid of inflation. Such a worldview is, to say the least, misleading. It needs a reality check.     The woman in the household or the man in the street is not persuaded by statistics on rates of inflation. In the mind of the citizen, there is a 'price perception index' which is based on prices paid. And even when inflation comes down, prices paid are higher. This price perception index has two dimensions. The first is that the consumer is concerned about the proportionate increase in prices over a period of time. Between June 2007 and June 2010, the consumer price index for industrial workers increased by 35 per cent, while the wholesale price index for food articles also rose by 35 per cent. Thus, what cost Rs 100 three years ago now costs Rs 135.     The second is that the consumer is worried about the increase in the price level in relation to his money income. Between June 2007 and June 2010, consumer prices for cereals, pulses, vegetable oils, meat, eggs and fish, milk, spices, vegetables and fruits increased by 30 to 50 per cent. For a large number of people, money incomes did not increase anywhere near as much.     The social and political threshold of tolerance for inflation in India has always been low, because a large proportion of the population is poor and an even larger proportion does not have index-linked incomes. People are afraid of inflation because it erodes their consumption of food and necessities. Governments are sensitive to inflation because elections have been lost on the price of onions. Indeed, in the past, persistent double-digit inflation was simply unacceptable to people and to governments. This time around, there are no visible signs of anger among the people, just as there are no obvious signs of anxiety in the government. Why?     Silence on the part of people is a puzzle. There are no obvious answers that are convincing. But there are some plausible explanations. For the rich, small in number and large in influence, food is such a negligible part of their expenditure that food prices do not matter. For the middle class in the private sector, beneficiaries of rapid economic growth, incomes have increased significantly more than prices and expenditure on food as a proportion of their household budgets has come down.     For the middle class in the government sector, following the Sixth Pay Commission, a bonanza of much higher salaries indexed even better with prices and combined with substantial arrears paid, meant that their purchasing power increased considerably more than prices. In the past, whenever there was double-digit inflation, it was these two segments of the middle class with a voice that organised protest and shaped opinion.     For the poor, making ends meet to simply provide food for their families is such a struggle that they have no time to protest. Committees and scholars are engaged in an unending debate about the proportion of the population who live below the poverty line. But the government now accepts that this proportion is 38 per cent and could be as much as 50 per cent. Therefore, at least 450 million, possibly 600 million, people live in poverty. The poor are hurt by inflation, particularly in food prices. Their silence does not mean acceptance. It is just that they do not have a voice.     The reality of inflation is recognised by the government. But its concern for the aam aadmi has not led it to address the problem as a priority. Once again, there are some plausible explanations. For one, the UPA won a general election in May 2009 despite inflation. For another, opposition parties, fragmented and in disarray, seem incapable of mobilising support on the issue.     Most important, perhaps, the government does not quite know what to do. Some hope that inflation will come down in six months, but relying on statistics or words is not enough. Some assert that inflation is the price of growth, even if those who lose from inflation are not those who gain from growth. Some believe that raising interest rates and tightening credit would help combat inflation, without recognising that this inflation is attributable to supply-demand imbalances rather than excess liquidity; if the diagnosis is wrong the prescription cannot work.     It would be a serious mistake for the government to conclude that people are now willing to live with higher inflation or that their tolerance is greater than before. Persistent inflation, particularly in food, hurts the poor. Slowly but surely, resentment mounts. The number of people affected could be as much as half our population. Even if they do not have purchasing power in a market economy, come election time, they do exercise their right to vote in a political democracy. In the political process, inflation is more like a treadmill than a time-bomb.     The writer is professor of economics, JNU.
FRESH AND GREEN A CORRESPONDENT     Getting good quality groceries at low cost is difficult in our area, but the same can’t be said about vegetables. Fresh vegetables at low costs are easily available.     Vegetable sellers fleece customers at Kharghar, Belapur and sometimes at Kamothe, but why worry when a variety of fresh veggies are available not too far away at Panvel.     At the local Raigad market in Old Panvel, you can buy greens and veggies from farmers directly selling their produce at wholesale rates. However, you will see this market only if you go in the mornings, as it last from as early as 5 in the morning and most leave by 11 am. Not many are aware of this market and it is a bit expensive just to get there if you take a rickshaw from the highway. However, if you are buying in large quantities it’s the best option. “It’s best for large quantities. For example, I bought 100 limes for Rs 110 to stock up on lime juice for the summer,” says Deepali Ghosh from New Panvel.     Better quality vegetables but at higher rates can be got from Panvel’s oldest market at Tapal Naka, hidden away from the road. The giveaway is a lane of potato and onion sellers through which you have to pass to get to the market. The vegetables here are bought from the farmers or the nearby wholesale market.     Even Kalamboli has cheap and fresh vegetables. Some vegetable sellers bring produce from their villages to sell. If you come across such a vendor, consider yourself blessed as these veggies are really fresh and crisp. One such seller is often found at the corner junction of Kalamboli main road and the Janta market at Kalamboli, but only in the mornings and not on a regular basis. The snake gourd (padval) available here is not fibrous like the ones wilting in the sun at the other retail sellers and the kothmeer is fresh and tempting enough for you to buy a large quantity to be made into yummy chutney.     Retailers at Belapur as well as Kharghar markets usually source the best quality veggies but the rates are comparatively high too. “Come here if you want veggies for special dishes. Good capsicums for pizzas and the big-sized brinjals for baigan bharta, are available only here,” says Belapur resident Savita Satpal.     For those who want to buy vegetables in comfort there are also stores like Reliance Fresh and Big Bazaar. Says Edison Sosa, working with a store in New Panvel, “We offer the option of exchanging vegetables or fruits that turn out to be spoilt with fresh ones, that traditional bhajiwallas don’t offer. Loyalty programmes and ensuring correct weight are other factors that attract customers to retail stores, even for perishable products like vegetables.”     It might sound surprising in a market like Panvel to find customers who would opt for packaged or store-bought vegetables over vegetables brought fresh from the mandai, but there are several takers. Says Sunita Pednekar from Kalamboli, “The fact that I don’t have to worry about or haggle over weights and prices and spoilt produce is a big relief for me. So I prefer shopping from such stores and it’s great to have them nearby.” Sosa adds, “The educated working population in Navi Mumbai is more concerned with convenience and value for money.”
PINCHING HARD Food inflation climbs to 15.46% TIMES NEWS NETWORK New Delhi: Food inflation maintained its ascent for the fourth straight week, rising to 15.46% for the week ended September 11 as heavy rains and floods disrupted supplies of essential items. Prices of cereals, some vegetables and milk rose sharply during the week but analysts are hopeful of the situation easing once rains recede and the index declining to a single digit by December.     Week on week, food inflation climbed 0.36 percentage points from 15% on September 4. Although there were some signs of moderation in July which stayed on through the first half of August, inflation started to increase in the later half.     Many parts of the country including Delhi, Haryana, Punjab, Uttar Pradesh, Himachal Pradesh, Assam and Rajasthan have been flooded that has disrupted supplies.     On an annual basis, cereal prices rose 6.75% driven mainly by higher prices of pulses, rice and wheat. While prices of pulses rose 4%, wheat and rice became costlier by 9.21% and 5.52%, respectively. Among other food items, milk prices soared 23.41% during the week compared to the same period last year and fruits by 10.33%.     Vegetables also became dearer by 6.84% on an annual basis, while potato and onions became cheaper by 48.56% and 1.97%, respectively. Economists also attributed the rise in inflation to the new series of price index, as the old one was based on 1993-94 prices.     The RBI last week increased short-term lending (Repo) rate by 0.25 percentage points to 6%, and borrowing (reverse repo) rate by 0.50% points to 5%. In its mid-quarterly review, the RBI had said that inflation remains the “dominant concern" as prices of food articles, which as per the new series rose by over 14% in August, are still contributing to the overall price pressure.
AP village sows cash crops, reaps harvest of lakhpatis Market-Savvy Farmers In Ankapur Own Bungalows, Snazzy Cars G Arun Kumar | TNN Ankapur (Nizamabad): Vegetable farming and showy chandeliers go hand in hand in Ankapur village of Nizamabad district, as do snazzy cars. A look at the luxurious mansions and imposing houses of 270-odd Reddy farmer families in this village off Nizamabad-Armoor highway would leave you spellbound.     The village in Armoor mandal bears testimony to the success of the farmers who have turned cultivation of vegetables and commercial crops like turmeric and red jowar into a lucrative proposition. Take Pydi Rakesh Reddy’s sprawling bungalow for instance. Spread over an acre of land and sitting right next to an agriculture field, a beckoning patio, stylish wooden doors, plush interiors, manicured lawns, carved antique statues would make you feel like you are sitting in a Jubilee Hills villa.     Not only is Ankapur (a population of 5,000) dotted with opulent buildings, but is also home to fast cars like Ford Endeavours/Fiestas, Toyota Fortuners, Skoda Lauras, Tata Manzas and Maruti Swifts. It’s turbo-charged growth as more and more lakhpatis are emerging out of farming in villages like Ankapur, Fatehpur, Manthani, Pipri, Subriyal and Matcharla (Armoor), Anksapur (Velpoor), Dumchanda and Gummriyal in Morthad mandals.     It’s an economic windfall coupled with robust marketing strategy and entrepreneurial zeal that has helped the farmers reap it rich. Baddam Sai Reddy made a fortune of Rs 1 crore out of turmeric. So much so, he’s now known as ‘Bangaru’ Sai Reddy in the village. He earned Rs 2 lakh profit on each acre (he had sown turmeric in 50 acres) of the crop.     Vegetables are grown in 6,000-7,000 hectares in the district. But the Reddy farmers go for sowing of tomato, onion, ginger, brinjal and beans as they command a better price in the market and offer them huge returns. C Ganga Reddy of Pipri invested Rs 20,000 on an acre of tomato crop. “I made a cool Rs 1 lakh,” he gushes with a broad smile.     Several farmers have invested Rs 70,000-80,000 on an acre of turmeric and earned profits of Rs 2.5 lakh-3 lakh. “The farmers in these parts are clever and market-driven. Tomato crop is sown in more acreage in summer so as to rake in more moolah as Nizamabad market is closer to Hyderabad and Nagpur in Maharashtra,” R Sivanand, agriculture officer, Armoor, reveals. For the record, AP depends heavily on Madanapalle tomato for a major part of the year.     But how did this turnaround happen? Proximity to market yards, fertilization of land, abundant water sources and market-oriented cropping patterns have made the ryots wealthy in the last 10-15 years. “Tomato grown in 500 acres gives a good yield of 25-30 quintals. But we always go by market studies and follow seed cropping,” says Bajanna Reddy, who exports the crop to Sangli in Maharashtra.     As higher returns/savings and better productivity that in turn created an even more vibrant consumer culture and boosted investment, the rich farmers now send their sons for higher studies abroad and invest in land/gold buying.     “They have formed community-based societies to discuss cropping patterns. They are always on the lookout for financially viable options,” M Ashok Kumar, assistant director, horticulture, says.     Corroborating this, Jeevan Kumar, who runs a fertilizer shop in Ankapur, says the farmers are depending more on organic fertilizers and manure to protect their farm lands. FARMVILLA Farmers have turned cultivation of vegetables & commercial crops like turmeric & red jowar into a lucrative proposition Tomato, onion, ginger, brinjal and beans command a better price and offer huge returns on investment Farmers are depending more on organic fertilizers & manure to protect farm lands Proximity to market yards, fertilization of land, abundant water sources and market-oriented cropping patterns have made the ryots wealthy in the last 10-15 years
Statewide APMC strike starts today Vijay Singh TNN Navi Mumbai: About 80,000 workers from the Agriculture Produce Marketing Committees (APMCs) across the state are going on an indefinite strike from Monday.     The Maharashtra Rajya Mathadi Transport and the General Kamgar Union, which control the loading and unloading of food stocks at all the APMCs in the state, have made a number of demands from the state government. Some of the demands are: better wages and housing for porters and workers and a ban on direct sourcing of vegetables and fruits by 25 corporates which bypass the APMCs.     “Five major wholesale sections at the Navi Mumbai APMC market, vegetables, fruits, onions, potatoes and grains, will be badly affected due to the indefinite strike call. This may lead to an increase in food prices in the festive season if the state does not act fast,’’ said a middle-level trader at the Vashi APMC.     More than 5,500 trucks and tempos enter and exit the Vashi APMC market with food items every day. They will not be able to operate due to the workers’ strike leading to complete halt of trading.     “The low-cost houses built for Mathadi workers in Ghansoli and Koparkhairane by Cidco have not been completely allotted to the union workers in the last ten years. According to our estimate, only 6000 Mathadi workers have been given these housing units, while the rest have gone to others, which is unfair to the workers,’’ said Patil.
Food inflation falls to 12.3%, lowest in a year Decline In Food Prices Slow | High Commodity Prices Pose Challenge For Cos TIMES NEWS NETWORK New Delhi: The index for food prices declined to 12.3% in the last week of October 30—its lowest in a year, sliding for the fourth consecutive week. However, finance minister Pranab Mukherjee said the cooling process of food inflation remained slow and hoped that the trend will pick up space.     The slide in food inflation was slowed down by high onion prices in the wake of excessive rain damaging crops in parts of Maharashtra. Hence, it wasn’t a surprise that the PM’s Economic Advisory Council chairman C Rangarajan blamed supply shortage in general and poor production for high prices.     Inflation was 12.59% this time last year. The slow decline can be gauged from the fact that despite such a high base, the index fell to just 12.3%, while it stood at 12.85% in the preceding week. While most food items such as wheat, pulses and potatoes turned cheaper, onions became costlier by about 10% within a week. Fuel inflation stayed at 10.67% in spite of a 0.35% rise in petrol prices during the week. Economists do not see food inflation falling to single digit immediately. The fall in inflation will have an impact on October wholesale price figures.     The government expects inflation to fall to 6% by the year-end. If that happens, the RBI may press the pause button on hiking key rates, something it hinted at in its monetary review earlier this month. Crude prices at 25-month high London: Oil climbed to 25-month high, above $88 a barrel, on Thursday after strong industrial ouptut boosted Chinese demand to a record high and fuel stocks in the US fell sharply. US crude for December rose to $88.32 a barrel after touching $88.55, its highest since October 2008. Brent rose to $89.30 after touching more than a two-year high earlier. REUTERS
Onion, garlic prices upset home budgets Bella Jaisinghani & Vijay Singh | TNN Mumbai: In a case of rapid price escalation, two of the commonest ingredients in an Indian meal have suddenly spiralled out of control.     Unseasonal rains in Lasalgaon, Maharashtra, have destroyed the last crop of onion, pushing up prices in the range of Rs 35-40 per kg while rising exports have thrust the cost of garlic upwards of Rs 250 per kg.     Reminiscent of a trend that was witnessed in the previous Diwali, prices of onion have skyrocketed to Rs 35-40 per kg in the retail market, up from Rs 23-25 per kg a week ago.     Since Diwali marks the fagend of the previous crop, experts say only the arrival of fresh produce one month from now could reduce the burden.     In a simultaneous blow, garlic whose price has been rising steadily since the past six months, now costs a king’s ransom.     On Sunday, average quality pods were selling for Rs 200-250 per kg in Andheri municipal market.     The Chinese variety, which retailers claim has a finer taste, has touched Rs 300 per kg in Lokhandwala Complex, Andheri. Vendors, who were calling out Rs 15 for a quarter kg a few months ago, have now prepared little 100-gm pouches that are sold for Rs 30.     “Garlic is being exported at breakneck speed,” says Abdul Kader, wholesaler from the Masjid area. “As a result of the shortfall, domestic consumers are being forced to pay Rs 200-250 per kg, up from Rs 50-60 per kg last April-May.”     In the first week of November, onions were selling for a retail price of Rs 23-25 per kg but late last week, prices escalated to Rs 35-40 per kg.     This sharp difference can be seen from the fact that wholesale rates of onion now stand at Rs 25-28 per kg at the APMC market, which is even higher than the retail cost two weeks before.     Ashok Walunj, director of APMC’s onion-potato market, says: “Prices have shot up in the past few days due to unseasonal rains in the onion-growing belt of Lasalgaon. Also, a petty traders’ strike in the area crippled supplies.”     Walunj believes that prices will stabilize now that the strike is over but wholesalers and retailers are not so hopeful. “Until the new crop arrives in January or February we will have to subsist on existing frugal stocks,” says Santosh Kumar Gupta, a retailer from Grant Road.     Consumers are revisiting memories of 1998 when at Rs 60 per kg, onions had been effectively displaced from the table. Housewives had turned to cabbage and curd as a base for their curries. Restaurants found themselves unable to bear the cost of onion as garnish, and began to serve shredded cabbage as an accompaniment.     Since 2008, price rise seems here to stay.
Food inflation plunges to 17-mth low TIMES NEWS NETWORK New Delhi: Food inflation declined to a 17-month low of 10.3% during the week ended November 6 as fresh supplies improved due to the arrival of new farm produce in the market. Food inflation stood at 13.99% a year ago and at 12.3% at the end of the previous week.     A declining curve for five successive weeks is expected to help ease the pressure on the RBI to increase interest rates. There is already a clamour for going slow in the wake of deceleration in industrial growth. On its part, RBI has indicated that it will press the pause button on rate hikes for the next few months.     Single-digit food inflation was last seen in the week ended July 24 and analysts say it will be lower than 10% shortly.     Declining food inflation is also likely to lead to a reduction in headline inflation, which the government expects will come down to 6% by the end of the year from 8.58% in October.     The price of most food items declined during the week on improved availability. Even onions, which have become expensive due to crop damage in Maharashtra, rose by just 0.63% during the week under review. Not a single food item became costlier by more than 1% during the week, latest data released on Thursday showed.
BANGLA IN LOKHANDWALA HANGLA'S AUTHENTIC BENGALI ROLLS AND MAINS ARE STAR ATTRACTIONS     If you are missing Kolkata's authentic Bengali food, head straight to Lokhandwala. Hangla's, is a quaint drive-in and take-away food joint, conveniently located right on the main road near Lokhandwala shopping market.     The brainchild of Hindustan Times photo-editor Soumitro Ghosh, Hangla's is his way of bringing Kolkata's delicious street food to Mumbai. The word hangla, in Bengali means greed or someone who can't stop eating even after being full. WHAT'S ON OFFER? There is a snack menu: Kolkata rolls, chops, kebabs and momos. Roll and kebab options include: egg, chicken, mutton, egg-chicken, double chicken, double mutton and fish rolls and kebabs. For the vegetarians, there are paneer, aloo and mixed vegetable rolls and kebabs. Hangla's also serves a mean fish fry.     There is something for the health-conscious too. Pay an additional Rs. 5 and you can get your parathas made out of whole wheat instead of maida.     Then, there is a separate kitchen where Hangla's prepares authentic Bengali main course. On offer are kasa mangsho (rich mutton gravy), shukto (bitter-sweet mixed vegetable curry), chingri maacher malai curry (prawns cooked with onions in a coconut milk-based thick gravy) and aloo dum (potatoes cooked in masala gravy).     The dessert here consists of a single Bengali specialty -- mishti doi or sweetened yoghurt. WE TRIED     The egg roll and the chicken roll. Both were made of thick parathas and stuffed with the filling of our choice. In our case, it came with egg / chicken, cucumbers, onions, green chillies, salt, pepper and a dash of lime. They even add ketchup and chilli sauce if you request them to. Considering the size of the rolls, they can easily be lunch or dinner options as well. AMBIENCE Hangla's is frequented by teenagers, shoppers, Bengali families and bachelors who live in and around Andheri (W).     The joint also boasts regulars who drop in after work every evening with their colleagues and friends to grab a quick bite. While some come to eat, other comes to spot their favourite television personalities. "My cousins from different parts of India come to Mumbai to watch the celebrities. So, Hangla's is the stop for me," says Gayatri Deb, Lokhandwala resident. Stars from the Bachchan family, Mithun Chakraborty, Bappi Lahiri and Biswajit often place take-away orders here     . VALUE FOR MONEY Both the vegetarian and non-vegetarian rolls are priced between Rs. 30 to Rs. 80. Kebabs and chops are priced between Rs. 25 to Rs. 65.
CREAMY DELIGHT VALUE FOR MONEY AND LOADS OF LIP-SMACKING VARIETIES IS WHAT YOU CAN EXPECT FROM A MEAL AT CREAM CENTRE, SAYS SURAJ UCHIL CHEF’S PLATTER World’s best Nachos Three-in-One Paneer and Vegetable Shaslik Mera Thali Subz Dum Biryani Channa Bhatura Penne Arrabiata Sizzling Brownie     One cannot stay at Kalyani Nagar in Pune and miss dining at Cream Centre. Located on the ground floor of the Cypress Hotel - a venture by VTP Group - the hotel offers a suitable option to enjoy a hearty meal with friends and family.     This particular Cream Centre franchise is known for its offering of seven different cuisines in one place. I was joined by Anish Bhanwadia, Director, Hotel Cypress for lunch. We also called in Chef Raghu, who has been working with Cream Centre for more than 15 years. As per the axiom: the chef knows best, we let him take us through the order and bring in the specialties.     We started off by ordering our starters for the day: Cream Centre's world’s best nachos, falafal and the three-in-one combination of American corn cheese balls, onion rings and baby corn crisps, all in small proportions. We then had paneer tikka, which, incidentally, is one of the most popular items in the hotel. Anish explained that the paneer, along with many other items, are daily bought in from Mumbai.     While we dug into the starters, we ordered the Cream Centre’s famous chana bhatura and mera thali, a unique offering wherein we get to customise our food. On the chef's recommendation, we let him decide the menu for the thali while we sipped a virgin mojito mocktail.     Anish, meanwhile, explained that they plan to start whole new varieties of ice-cream in this outlet in the coming months. “Since Cream Centre were the first to introduce ice-creams in India, why not have a section dedicated just for it,” he said.     The thali arrives leaving me astounded to see the items in it. It comprised a glass of buttermilk, papad, paratha, biryani (dum biryani is preferred but we ordered the Cream Centre biryani), raita, three different types of curries - adraki palak, dal makhani, paneer makhani. We also had a plate of chaat consisting of dahi papdi chaat, Russian salad and tortilla chips with salsa. This was probably the first time I was seeing such a huge assortment of food items in a single dish.     Anish explained that his aim was to make this hotel available to the masses and not the classes. “These meals are all in a reasonable price range and the quantity you get is good enough for two,” he adds.     For the desserts, I had the ‘fruit factory’, an assortment of different fruits in ice-cream. The ice-cream was good but the choice of fruit could definitely have been better.     But overall, the whole dining experience at Cream Centre was simply fantastic. Every item had its own unique taste. From the starters to the desserts, everything had its own flavour. Being a hardcore non-vegetarian, I fell for this treat for a pure vegetarian. They have tried to bring in something different in all their items. Apparently, their years of experience has helped them make the right choices. Also, their menu and selection of food items make the whole eating experience quite memorable. After all, packing seven different cuisines under one roof and delivering it with success certainly demands a lot of effort, besides hard work. A meal for two will cost around Rs 500-Rs 600. Cream Centre is located in Hotel Fern, Survey No.2081, Lane No.10, Kalyani Nagar, Pune - 411 014 Open on all days from 11am to 11pm
Food inflation at 18-month low of 8.6% TIMES NEWS NETWORK NewDelhi:The index for food prices came down to a single digit after four months, dipping to an 18-month low of 8.6% in the week ended November 20. The decline came about on arrival of winter crops in the market but onions, fruits and milk became costlier. Food inflation was at this level last in May 2009.     Food inflation, which has been going down for seven weeks in a row, stood at 10.15% for the week ended November 13. It had recorded single-digit level in the week ended July 24 at 9.53%.     The decline is expected to ease pressure on headline inflation, which stood at 8.58% in October, allowing the Reserve Bank some breathing space in its next monetary policy review.
MARKET TRIP gives city heartburn Price Of Onions & Veggies May Not Drop Till March 2011, Predict Experts Bella Jaisinghani & Chittaranjan Tembhekar | TNN     Cookery shows on television have turned into reality TV. Given the price of onions, which has been hovering around Rs 48-50 per kg over the past week, TV shows are airing recipes that do not call for onions. The trend harks back to 1998 when the price of this essential item had caused the fall of the BJP government in the New Delhi assembly election. A few months ago, prime minister Manmohan Singh assured the country that the escalating cost of vegetables, lentils, etc would be curbed by the end of the year.     Instead, onions cost Rs 48-50 per kg, green peas Rs 160 per kg and moong dal Rs 100-110 per kg. Trying to assess the method in this madness can be an onerous task with wholesalers and retailers citing bad government policy, unseasonal rain, over-export and mismanagement as key reasons. “Buyers often taunt us saying we are weighing onion as if it was gold,” says Grant Road retailer Santosh Kumar Gupta. “The truth is that prices in the Vashi wholesale market are so high that we retailers make little profit.”     The director of Vashi’s wholesale APMC market Sanjay Pansare confirms that rates have risen from Rs 100-150 per 10 kg to Rs 300-350 following the damage caused by unseasonal rain. Agro expert Rajendra Raskar expects prices to     reduce only once the new crop arrives     in March.     The kanda bhajia has almost disappeared from hotel menus and roadside stalls. “Salads in bars and restaurants have begun to eschew this item and a special order commands a special price,” says Narayana Alva, president of the Association of Hotels and Restaurants (AHAR). Hotels are trying their best to continue offering onion as an accompaniment. “It’s difficult to sustain such astronomical costs. We may switch to substitutes like cabbage or beetroot or charge extra for onion,” says Chandrahas Shetty, advisor to AHAR. Kitchens are weighed under the burden of cooking oil, the price of which has been increasing by Rs 5-10 per kg each month. Vegetables are selling for Rs 10-15 per quarter kg. “Buyers complain that tomato was selling for Rs 10 per kg. Now it is at Rs 24,” says grocer from Andheri, Arjun Saw.     AftabAhmedKhan,oneof thelargestwholesalers of eggs in the city, does not foresee a substantial price reduction. “Poultry feed costs have escalated. Demand will pick up during Christmas and New Year so the price of eggs and meat could rise even further. Vegetable prices should be lowest during winter and high in summer. If     you are paying through your nose for winter produce, how can you expect things to improve when the season e n d s ? ” he asks.
NEWS DIGEST Food prices eat into Mumbaikar’s budget Rising cost of food items has thrown middleclass Mumbaikars off course. While onion and tomato now cost Rs 50 and Rs 24, chicken is selling at Rs 90-110 a kg and paneer, that eternal favourite, costs Rs 200/kg. P 3 Dumper ploughs into taxi, three killed Three persons were killed when the taxi they were travelling in was hit by a speeding dumper on the Eastern Express Highway in Mulund in the wee hours of Wednesday. The victims were on their way to Ratnagiri for a wedding when tragedy struck. P 3 Jolt to Lilavati Trust, fixed deposits frozen Yes Bank and IndusInd Bank have put a freeze and Cosmos Bank has imposed status quo on the Lilavati Hospital Trust’s fixed deposits of Rs 150 crore. P 3 New airport hits forest land hurdle: The Alibag forest division has told Cidco that it cannot go ahead with the Navi Mumbai airport project until it gets the permission of the forest department as the project involves destruction of mangroves. P 3 Dhoni inks $6.5 m deal with Maxx: Indian skipper M S Dhoni has signed a $6.5 million endorsement deal with Maxx Mobile for seven years. P 25 No escape route for drunk drivers: Those caught driving drunk will be photographed immediately to ensure their proper identification by court staffers and prevent impersonation. P 11 5-yr-old flung from train stable: Sadhana Jamdade, the five-year-old who was flung out of the Bhusawal passenger train after a fight over a seat on Tuesday, is said to be stable. P 4 Bring Warne back, demand fans: Distraught over the team's loss in the second Test, Australian fans have launched a campaign demanding that spin great Shane Warne, who quit Tests four years ago, be recalled. P 25 Taliban bomber kills 17 in Pakistan: A Taliban bomber, aged about 18, blew himself up near a minibus in Kohat town of northwest Pakistan on Wednesday, killing at least 17 people. P 22 
Pricey onions now make restaurant owners cry Hoteliers Say 40% Hike Likely Without Tax Relief Sharad Vyas TNN Mumbai: French beans for a king’s ransom, onions for a kingdom. The average Mumbaikar has been crying himself hoarse on how food prices are leaving him with little to eat, to little avail. Now city restaurants are finding the burden, especially of the Rs 50/kg onion, a difficult one to bear.     Unable to cope with rising prices of essential items, restaurants have sought a bailout package from the state government, including concessions in taxes and licence fees imposed by the BMC. In a letter to the government on Thursday, the Association of Hotels and Restaurants (AHAR) warned if the state does not curb prices, which began rising due to unknown factors a year back, they would be left with no option but to pass on the burden to the common man.     “We have been waiting for help for the past many months and it is about time the authorities did something instead of giving assurances. While we know it is a tough task, if the government thinks the trend cannot be corrected, it should at least give us concessions in taxes such as VAT and provide relief in other charges such as licence fee,” said advisor to AHAR, Chandrahas Shetty.     The burden of escalating costs of essential items could reflect on hotel menus, said members of AHAR, with the hike ranging anywhere from 30% to 40%. “There is very little scope for individual restaurant owners to deviate from the menu already planned for the season as a large part of the raw material is either already bought or was booked in advance,” said Suresh Shetty, owner of a restaurant in Malad and AHAR member.     The decision to take up the matter with the state government was taken in a meeting held on Thursday. Members could announce stronger measures in AHAR’s annual general meeting at the end of this month. “Stronger measures will be adopted if the government ignores our warnings until the AGM at the end of this month,” said Shetty.     The current cost escalation is being blamed on numerous factors, from unseasonal rains to poor government policies and hoarding, among others. Cheaper, cabbages now for salad Mumbai: They lend taste to any dish, are savoured as an accompaniment, and are powerful enough to make a government taste defeat. Yet onions, among the most indispensable of vegetables, are being substituted by the lesser expensive cabbage or beetroot by hoteliers desperately trying to cut costs and keep customers. Onions have escalated to Rs 50/kg, green peas hover at around Rs 150/kg and other vegetables are in the Rs 35-40/kg bracket. But onions have hit eateries hardest especially because of their favourite status on the salad menu. Now, many eateries are replacing onions with cabbages. Some have however decided to increase prices of onion salads . “Onion is like an addiction for many customers so instead of replacing it we have decided to charge a bit more. Those who are in the habit of eating onions with food every day do not even mind paying extra ,” said Uday Shetty, owner of hotel Adi Ashray outside Dahisar station. “There has to be a method to tackling escalating costs. An internal mechanism of using raw material judiciously has to be imposed,” said Khar hotelier Suresh Manjrekar. | TNN
FOOD THE MORNING - AFTER BRUNCH Tired from the previous night’s wild partying? Time to recuperate with some sumptuous food in a soothing ambience. iDiva takes you through some of the city’s best Sunday brunches By TEAM iDIVA To read more, log on to http://health.idiva.com 
BEYOND THE NAUTCH Bars no longer have dancers but they have found other ways to entertain their customers. Orchestra bands with female singers keep the nightlife going in many cities across India Meenakshi Kumar | TNN     Araucous crowd of very drunk men is jeering and clapping in a smoke-filled, dimly lit room on the outskirts of Kolkata. The men get louder when a girl comes on stage and starts to sing. Rekha is a popular ‘item’ girl in this bar. She’s part of the orchestra band that plays here every night. Such orchestra bands have been in Kolkata for a decade but many came to other cities and towns across the country just five years ago, after dancing was banned in Mumbai’s bars. So what’s it like to sing in a band, not dance in a bar? It’s bawdy work still, say former bar girls. Payal in Nagpur works in a bank by day and sings in a hotel drinking den by night. She says the work is more “challenging” than before because it has no predictable pattern and she could be asked to sing anything the customer asks for. It’s more uncertain too, she says, with “many hotels shutting down.” If Payal sounds wistful, Geeta Shetty is positively sad. The former dancer now works as a waitress and confesses she was “bindaas” in her bar girl days. Today, she’s worried sick about something as mundane as the price of onions. She blames the Maharashtra government for allowing the sale of tobacco and cigarettes and banning something as “innocent” as the dance bar. Innocent? The self-styled moral police insists entertainment has become cleaner and more “family-oriented”. The other side of the story, of course, is that many of the 75,000 girls who lost their Mumbai bar jobs five years ago were left vulnerable to exploitation. Sonia Faleiro’s new book “Beautiful Thing” describes the story of Leela, once Mumbai’s highest paid bar girl. The 2005 ban by the Maharashtra state assembly forced her into prostitution. Many others fled to Dubai’s thriving bar scene. Some became waitresses in the bars they once danced in. Prabha Dixit, whose NGO Sanmitra Trust helps to rehabilitate the dancers, says many “have formed self-help groups and have bank accounts (now)…they want to educate their children.” But Faleiro says it is a constant search to make ends meet and be “accepted by society… unfortunately, there are few happy endings.”     Almost all the women who dance or sing in drinking dens belong to poor families and come from small-town India. Most wound up in bars with bruised expectations after being lured to the bright lights of the big city. But for some like Geeta, the bar was liberating. As a child, she worked in a mill; the bar made her feel more in control of her life. Reena Borkar in Nagpur says it was a blessed escape to sing in a bar — she had an alcoholic father and a mentally ill mother.     Emotions apart, there is one very tangible result of the shift away from the dance bar culture. Both Mumbai’s drinking dens and their former dancers say they earn less than before.     Interestingly, the scene is very different in cities like Kolkata, which did not have as pronounced a bar dancer culture. Singers like the popular item girl Rekha say the work is well paid, especially at the weekend. Tumpa sings at one of the city’s many bars. She earns at least Rs 3,000, rising to Rs 4,000 every night. This is at least three times the takings a decade ago when orchestra bands had just started to play in Kolkata’s bars.     Tumpa says it gets even better at the weekend. Then, she explains, takings can double or shoot up further to Rs 10,000. Tumpa is content with her life and says there is no reason not to carry on as she is.     That’s what Mumbai dancer Preeti once believed. She says the dance bar was equivalent to “my office” and she felt sad to leave it. Such “offices” seem to be multiplying in the national capital with Delhi moving on from dance bars and cabarets to more exotic forms of nightlife.     A decade or two ago, the dance bar was popular in Delhi but now it has flashy nightclubs with dancers and bespoke shows. Lawyer Nakul Dewan says “a dance licence does not specify the nitty-gritties of what type of dancing is allowed and what is not.” Accordingly, members-only nightclub Lap says it features a “dance troupe” wearing Bharatnatyam or traditional Rajasthani costumes. Lap’s Cyrus Dalal says the girls dance — slowly, inside giant window displays — on either side of the DJ. Many Delhi clubs admit to flying in dance troupes from Cuba or the Ukraine. It’s a far cry from the old days, says businessman Shivam Mehra, recounting his first visit to the cabaret in Delhi. “It was a late night show and we had to buy tickets. It was my first time and I was shocked by what I saw — half clad women who swung to some Bollywood song as men applauded and threw money at them.”     So it’s all change, or is it? Should India be more grown up about adult entertainment? Once, Paris had its Moulin Rouge; London still has its cabaret clubs and Amsterdam rejoices in both a Sex Museum and a museum of erotic art from all over the world. Retired IPS officer, Maxwell Pereira says India is hypocritical about dance bars. “If it’s done within the bounds of decency, then there is no problem…why do we call them bar girls anyway? Why degrade them? They are stewardesses.” Activist Akhila Shivdas, who founded the Centre for Media Advocacy, agrees. The dancer’s trade, she believes, “can be legalized”.     But this, like some of the more fanciful names of bars, may be just a golden dream.     (Some names have been changed) WITH REPORTS FROM PARAKRAM RAUTELA IN DELHI; SHARMILA GANESAN-RAM IN MUMBAI; SOUMITTRA S BOSE IN NAGPUR AND PRITHVIJIT MITRA IN KOLKATA
Inflation in single digit, but food costly High Shelf Prices Could Add To Popular Discontent TIMES NEWS NETWORK New Delhi: Though less talked of, food prices are likely to add to the public discontent over corruption scams. As the summer heat rose earlier this year, the government pinned hopes on a “normal” monsoon cooling retail food prices that were pushing kitchen bills through the roof.     The government’s top policy managers said good rains would check inflation and the second half of the year would bring better tidings. Their predictions proved partially correct—with food inflation falling to single digits for the third week running. But on the other hand, shelf rates remain high with some commodities like cooking oils spiking.     A bountiful monsoon has ensured that the government does not have to contend with galloping inflation, shortages, hoarding and a public outcry. It has helped the government procure paddy in adequate quantities and prepare for the rabbi crop that is doing well. Storing foodgrains is a problem, but at least there is a problem of plenty.     Yet, prices remain stubbornly high. In the last six months, rice has remained between Rs 22-23 a kg, and wheat has also been hovering around Rs 13-14 a kg. Atta is at Rs 16 a kg, tur dal is slightly down from Rs 71 to Rs 68.5 a kg. Moong is cheaper at Rs 72 a kg—down from Rs 87 a kg—though there are not too many takers for it.     Urad dal rose from Rs 68 to Rs 72 a kg. Sugar has varied between Rs 31-33 per kg but oils have become costlier. Mustard oil rose from Rs 65 to Rs 71 a kg, soya oil from Rs 58 to Rs 77, sunflower from Rs 70 to 108 a kg while onion moved from Rs 11 a kg to Rs 33 a kg and potato is Rs 13 a kg as compared to Rs 10 per kg in June.     Sometimes, the central government statistics are a shade below the actual retail price at the doorstep with vendors claiming their commissions and they reflect the “ordinary” quality for wheat and rice. But, they do indicate how prices have behaved since June, 2010, and show the price line not wavering even after a bountiful monsoon and kharif crop.
Onions will be hot potato for govt Prices Soar As Unseasonal Rain Hit Supply; Delhi, UP, Bengal Suffer The Most TIMES NEWS NETWORK New Delhi: The soaring onion prices have not only upset the budget of the common man but also spelt trouble for the UPA government. With the wholesale market in Delhi reporting a daily shortfall of 40% due to damaged crops, retail prices have more than doubled to Rs 80 per kg in some areas, making the poor man’s food out of his reach .     After the onion crop in Maharashtra and Rajasthan suffered due to monsoon rains lasting till late in the season, north India was banking on the back-up stock to meet its demand. Prices, which had been rising steadily since July, started settling towards the end of November.     But in a shocker of sorts, farmers found that even the back-up crop had rotten in the fields, causing a daily shortfall of about 500 tonne in the Delhi market. In what could dampen the New Year spirit for most north Indian households, where onion is a basic ingredient in cooking, the situation may get worse before getting better. Wholesale traders said Delhiites can expect prices to cross the Rs 100 mark within the next few days. Prices may come down after a fortnight when the new stock from Maharashtra starts coming in.     Union commerce minister Anand Sharma blamed big traders for the situation. “The price rise is because of hoarding. There is enough stock of onion in the country,” he said.     The minister said the government had more than doubled the minimum export price of onions to $1,200 per tonne to rein in domestic prices. “We will make exports prohibitive till the domestic situation improves,” he said.     Brahm Yadav, chairman, Delhi Agriculture Board, said the failure of the back-up crop had led to the sudden spike in prices. “The monsoon had ruined the Maharashtra crop while in Rajasthan, it was affected by both extreme summer heat and then heavy rain. Prices were quite high even in October and November, but we were expecting things to stabilize as the back-up crop had started coming in. Now even that has been exhausted and the next new crop will start arriving only in the first week of January. Till then, the situation is not going to improve at all,” he said.     Sources added that the back-up crop was also in the fields and had not been harvested. “We were hoping that only about 22% of the crop would have been affected, but we realised too late that even that was also almost entirely ruined. In Rajasthan, sowing in fact had to happen a second time as the first crop was washed away,” said a trader.     An official at the Azadpur Mandi said, “Technically there is no shortage for Delhi as the average demand here is about 400 tonnes. However, Delhi acts as a terminal market and crop from here goes to UP and onwards to Bengal. On Monday, the Azadpur mandi received 70 trucks or 700 tonne of onion. But this was not sufficient to meet the entire demand.”     Now traders are waiting for the next crop from Neemuch and nearby areas in Maharashtra and Gujarat to bring down prices. Imported onions arrive from Pak Chandigarh: Amid soaring prices of onion in the country, truck loads of the commodity arrived on Monday from Pakistan through the Attari--Wagah land route for supply to northern markets in India. The landed cost of onion from Pakistan stood at Rs 18-20 per kg, he said adding this included custom duty, cess, transportation and handling charges. AGENCIES KNOW YOUR ONIONS India consumes on average 40 lakh tonnes of onions a year. Delhi alone gorges on 3,000 tonnes daily 2nd largest onion producer in the world after China Around 30% of the country’s crop is produced in Maharashtra Nashik alone contributes 35 to 40% of the state’s production Other onion producing districts of Maharashtra are Pune, Ahmednagar, Satara, Sholapur and Dhulia BANKING ON PAK BAILOUT October 23, 2005: Pakistanis sent a train loaded with 30 tonnes of onions to Amritsar to ease an onion crisis in India. Our neighbours sent us a total of 2,000 tonnes. These onions were sold at subsidized rates POLITICOS CAN CRY With its capacity for bringing down governments and marring political careers, the onion plays an explosive role in Indian politics
As prices soar, govt cries halt to onion export Crisis In State May Ease Only By January-End TIMES NEWS NETWORK New Delhi/Mumbai: The government on Monday stepped in to stem soaring onion prices by suspending the export of the key food item until January 15.     With the cost of the bulb reducing home cooks and restaurateurs alike to tears and threatening to fuel public ire over runaway food prices, the Centre initiated action in the morning itself and asked farm cooperative Nafed and other agencies to “voluntarily” suspend onion exports.     By evening, the agriculture ministry issued a statement saying the minimum export price was being more than doubled to $1,200 a tonne from $500 per tonne at present. The move will make Indian exports uncompetitive in the global markets, and make it virtually impossible to export onions.     Onion prices have shot up significantly in recent weeks. In some markets, it is selling at anywhere between Rs 40 and Rs 70 a kg. In Mumbai’s upmarket Lokhandwala complex market, for example, onion of poor quality is being sold at Rs 48 a kg, while in Kharghar, a vendor was quoting Rs 60 a kg on Monday—and getting it. As Rekha Mirchandani, a home-maker, put it, “It is a little absurd to expect people from the middle class to forgo the most basic food item. Vegetable prices are usually low in winter, one can only guess the shape of things to come in summer.”     H Shah, who sells dabeli (a Gujarati snack) in Ghatkopar east, has replaced onions with shredded cabbage and carrots. “When I sell dabeli for Rs 8, I simply cannot afford onions that are priced above Rs 50. I have to resort to substitutes,” he said. TEARS AND FEARS • Prices have skyrocketed in recent days to as much as Rs 70 a kg • Centre has asked Nafed and other agencies to voluntarily stop exports • Agri ministry has doubled export prices of onion, making it uncompetitive • In Maharashtra, onion may be distributed through ration shops if stocks run out • Summer crop that is harvested towards Jan-end may be only hope Summer crop only in January-end     Iin more bleak news, officials in Nashik, where the onion crop is chiefly cultivated, said prices would start stabilizing only towards the end of January, when the summer crop is expected to hit the market. Nashik collector P Velarasu told TOI on Monday, “Nearly one lakh hectares of onion crop have been affected in the district. The next crop will come only in January.” The summer crop, which is usually stored to be sold the next year, may be brought straight to the market.     The government has asked Nafed and other agencies to start retail sales from Tuesday to improve the supply of the commodity for consumers. These decisions were taken at a meeting of the agriculture ministry’s price fixation committee. In Maharashtra, the government may distribute onion through fair price shops after reviewing its stock.     It’s not only consumers who are feeling the pinch. Nashik MP Sameer Bhujbal said, “Farmers have been hit hard by the unseasonal rains and have sustained financial losses. They would have benefited from higher prices, but one has to also ensure that the consumer does not suffer. Hence, the ban on onion export has been imposed.” Onions are a politically sensitive commodity, at least three governments have had to pay a heavy price over the issue. (With inputs from Yogesh Naik)
Onions can cut cholesterol levels and also give relief from common cold     The price of onions may have skyrocketed of late in the Mumbai markets but the good news is that you can easily grow this root in your flower pot right at home. Make the most of the nutritional benefits of a fresh onion shoot by using it to flavour dishes such as dal and vegetables. The onion bulb has many therapeutic properties. It can provide substantial relief from common cold, bacterial infections, respiratory problems, angina, and cough. Even the World Health Organisation has confirmed that onions are good for people who suffer from loss of appetite and for those who are suffering from atherosclerosis.     TNN
Onion Rings Combat price rise with reform     The price of onions has often made aam aadmi cry. Ditto for governments, especially at polltime. So, the UPA will worry that retail prices have in recent days exceeded Rs 50 a kg in most regions, hitting Rs 80 in Delhi and other cities. The trigger was beyond anyone’s control: crop damage in Maharashtra and other places courtesy heavy rains. But, as UPA ministers say, hoarding may have done its bit in contributing to the price spiral. Steps taken so far include an exports ban, which has had some impact, and a minimum export price hike where no-objections were issued. Cutting import duty can also help traders – already importing from Pakistan – to access varied suppliers. Above all, disturbing allegations that hoarding in some onion-producing states have officialdom’s blessings demand probing and, if needed, tough punitive action.     The fact is that food inflation remains sticky, even as the UPA talks of spurring farm productivity and food security. That’s a reminder of the need for structural changes to better combat periodic crises, whatever their cause. Our farm-to-fork supply chain is poorly integrated and short on facilities. Reform is required for organised retail’s expansion, benefiting farmers and consumers while creating jobs and infrastructure, especially in storage and distribution. It’s scandalous that prices frequently soar while farm produce rots for lack of infrastructure. Price volatility issues equally from deficient post-harvest marketing networks and rules denying farmers direct sales avenues. Given India’s size, a seamless, private initiative-friendly market – unencumbered by multiplication whether of taxes, entry barriers, intermediaries or monopolies like those of state-supported agricultural produce market committees – is needed. Commodities must move easily, especially during emergencies from surplus to deficit areas. With agriculture’s modernisation boosting farm incomes, there’ll be less need for palliatives like ever-climbing support prices, another prop for high food inflation.
Onion on mind, diesel price hike put off Sanjay Dutta TNN New Delhi: The ministerial panel on fuels under Pranab Mukherjee has deferred a decision on raising diesel price in view of the sudden spurt in onion prices and a weekend public function at IndianOil Corporation’s Haldia refinery that will see the finance minister practically launch Congress’s electioneering in West Bengal.     The panel was scheduled to meet on Wednesday to decide on raising diesel price by Rs 1.50-2 a litre. But the meeting has been put off. Official reason: some ministers on the panel are ‘unavailable’. The fact, however, is that increasing diesel price now would have invited more bad name for the UPA government, hemmed in by high inflation and corruption charges.     Emboldened by the recent decline in inflation, the oil ministry last week allowed state-run oilmarketers to raise the price of petrol, which is technically free from government control, by Rs 3 a litre. The comfort levels of sliding inflation also prompted the ministerial panel to look at raising diesel price moderately to prune oilmarketers’ losses without creating too much inflationary pressure.     But the sudden spurt in onion prices changes the situation, at least for now. Raising diesel price at this juncture will only add to inflationary pressures and also prompt public outcry.
No onion distribution through ration shops Yogesh Naik TNN Mumbai: On a day when onion prices spiraled to Rs 100 a kg in city markets, the state government washed its hands of a proposal to start distributing the vegetable through fair price shops.     State agriculture and marketing minister Radhakrishna Vikhe-Patil said, “Nearly 85% of the onion crop in Maharashtra was damaged due to unseasonal rain. There is no crop for distribution in PDS too. We will get more crop from Gujarat and Rajasthan in three weeks to boost the supply. The prices will come down once we get the additional stock. The government, however, will not play any role in the distribution of onions.”     The minister said that there could be a slight drop in prices as an onion stock has arrived in Mumbai from Pakistan via Wagah border. “Forty more containers of onion will reach Mumbai soon,” said Vikhe-Patil. “The wholesale price of onion in western and northern Maharshtra is Rs 5,500 to Rs 6,000 per tonne. In Ahmednagar, it has soared to Rs 7,100 per tonne,“ he added.     Congress leaders said that they would soon take up the matter with chief minister Prithviraj Chavan and agriculture minister Vikhe-Patil.     In Mumbai and satellite townships, vegetable vendors have been milking the situation to their advantage by charging exorbitant rates. Shilpa Kamath, a telecom professional from Kurla (W), said, “On Tilak Road in Ghatkopar, onions are being sold for Rs 100 a kg.”     Onion prices are slightly lower in Navi Mumbai as the wholesale market is located there.     A housewife from Bandra said, “Vendors are charging anything between Rs 80 and Rs 100 for a kg of onion. Prices of other vegetables have also soared. Tomatoes are being sold for Rs 60 a kg. If this continues, my monthly budget will go awry.’’
EXCEPTION HERE
PM asks Pawar to keep eye on onion prices TIMES NEWS NETWORK New Delhi: With onion becoming unaffordable, Prime Minister Manmohan Singh on Tuesday wrote to agriculture minister Sharad Pawar, calling for action to control the rising retail cost even as the government eased the customs duty of 5% and countervailing duty of 4% on onion imports. Pawar, however, said it might be two to three weeks before prices cooled.     The PM’s intervention came after prices more than doubled in some markets in a week, taking the government by surprise while consumers were left gasping. Taking quick note of high onion prices and their adverse political fallout, Singh has asked “concerned ministries” to act swiftly.     Pawar, however, was not hopeful of any immediate relief, saying, “Onion prices will remain high for the next two-three weeks and the situation is likely to improve only after that.” ‘Have to live with high onion prices’     His timeline seems linked to the expected fresh arrivals of onions from Maharashtra and Rajasthan where crops are maturing.     The agriculture and food minister, who has been accused of talking up prices in the past by the opposition, indicated that consumers would have to live with the high price of onions while pointing to steps like suspension of exports till January 15 and more than doubling of minimum export price to $1,200 a tonne from $525 a tonne.     The wholesale price in major markets of Nashik did decline by up to 33% mainly due to the ban on exports announced by the commerce ministry on Monday, but was yet to impact retail rates. Pawar said heavy rains in Nashik had damaged a substantial portion of the crop. The estimated damage, said officials, was around 40%. The Rajasthan crop now expected to reach the market in a few weeks had been re-sown as the first was almost entirely lost.     Officials said that while the shortfall in production was the primary reason for the price rise, hoarding was also to blame as traders controlled the stock in cold storages and were releasing it at huge profits. The irony was that farmers in Nashik and elsewhere would have got only Rs 20-22 a kg for the onions now being sold in cities at between Rs 65-85 a kg, with middlemen and traders making huge profits.
S N A P J U D G M E N T
E D I T PAG E M A I L B OX MY TIMES MY VOICE The price of onions With reference to the editorial ‘Onion Rings’ (Dec 22), while skyrocketing onion prices have made the common man shed tears both literally and figuratively, the situation once again exposes Sharad Pawar’s inept handling of the agriculture ministry. It clearly points to the absence of any effective mechanism to monitor and handle price volatility caused by natural vagaries. Further, the government wakes up and swings into action only when the situation erupts into a major crisis. For a nation that has made significant strides in information technology and achieved remarkable economic growth, inefficient management and distribution of commodities reflect poorly on India’s image.     P P Sethumadhavan, VIA EMAIL Reinvent Congress With reference to the Second Opinion ‘Family business’ (Dec 22) by Jug Suraiya, the Congress’s continued reliance on eulogising the contributions of one family now appears outmoded. The party should instead look forward and carve out a distinct niche for itself, keeping in tune with the changing times. People no longer get swayed by the past achievements of charismatic leaders. They expect political parties to address their day-to-day issues. Any regime that delivers on governance will win people’s support. The time has come for the Congress to make an attempt to move out of its comfort zone and reinvent itself.     M V Krishna, BANGALORE
Cooks use bread crumbs, biscuits to rescue curries Radha Sharma & Bharat Yagnik TNN Ahmedabad: Restaurateurs, who were upbeat about business during the festive season, have been forced to compromise their cuisines. With prices of the ubiquitous onion hitting the roof, cooks are thickening their lip smacking north Indian and Mughlai curries with cheaper alternatives like biscuit or bread crumbs, instead of onion paste.     A city-based restaurateur told TOI, “We just add a dash of onion to maintain the taste, because we cannot afford to hike the rates of dishes.”     Meanwhile, officials at the Agricultural Produce Market Committee (APMC) have appealed to people to ration their onion shopping to avoid further tipping the demand-supply balance. The APMC suggested that a bunch of families could get together to buy 20 kg of onion at the local wholesale rate of Rs 40-45 per kg. “We have appealed to housewives not to buy onions in bulk, fearing a further price hike. No family should buy more than a kg or two,” said APMC Secretary N I Chasatia. The government has banned exports too, but then there is hardly any crop worth exporting. “This year, we are not exporting at all because the quality of crop has deteriorated and the unseasonal rains have caused damage to the rabi onion crop,” said a top agriculture department official. (With inputs from Rajiv Shah)
Post-duty sop, PSUs told to import onions Govt Puts Indefinite Ban On Exports TIMES NEWS NETWORK New Delhi: Onions seemed to be the prime focus for the government on Wednesday, with several agencies stepping in to increase supply in an attempt to tame prices. Though the government stepped into the damage control mode on Monday, the impact has not been visible so far with prices in parts of Delhi hovering around Rs 80 a kg.     The consumer affairs department, however, said the retail price of onion was Rs 64 a kg in Delhi, while the highest price was recorded in Tiruchirapalli, where the commodity was selling for Rs 75 a kg. The all-India average was just short of Rs 50 a kg, the department claimed.     Within hours of doing away with import duty on the key food ingredient, the commerce ministry asked three public sector companies – MMTC, State Trading Corporation and Projects Export Corporation – to import onions. “We need to import onions fast. We cannot wait for weeks for the imports to take place,” Commerce Secretary Rahul Khullar said at a hurriedly -convened press conference. The public sector companies are expected to look for the commodity in neighbouring markets such as Pakistan, Bangladesh and China.     In addition, the Directorate General of Foreign Trade (DGFT) announced an indefinite ban on export of onions against the earlier decision by Nafed to suspend exports until January 15.     Commerce & Industry Minister Anand Sharma said prices had shot up due to hoarding by players in India. He added the government, if needed, would initiate more steps so that prices come down over the next few days. In the neighbouring building, Indian Railways asked its zones to take transportation of onions on a priority basis.     However, it would take more than a couple of weeks for things to return to normal as fresh arrivals are expected from December-end. TN to buy onions from north India Chennai: The Tamil Nadu government will procure onion from north Indian states to control the spiralling price of the crop, which has touched Rs 85 per kg in the state. Food Minister A V Velu, said onion prices had gone up considerably as arrivals from Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka and Maharashtra were very poor for the past three days. An official team from the state would be deputed to north Indian states to procure onion, which would be supplied on a no-profit basis through civil supplies shops in Chennai and district headquarters, he said. AGENCIES
Restaurants cut back menus, pump up bills Chittaranjan Tembhekar TNN Mumbai: Burdened with rising vegetable rates, many restaurants in the city have hiked the prices of their dishes by Rs 5 to Rs 10 to cope with the expected surge in business during the coming festive season. Other eateries are anxiously watching the situation and are expected to follow suit in January.     One of the main causes for the restaurants’ decision is the increase in onion prices, which on Wednesday stood at Rs 70-80 per kg. The prices are expected to return to last month’s Rs 20-25 per kg in March when the rabi crop hits the market and eases the short supply.     There were, however, positive signs on Wednesday in the wholesale market at Vashi. “On Tuesday, the wholesale price (of onions) was Rs 52 per kg. Today, it is Rs 43 per kg,” said agriculture produce marketing committee director Sanjay Pansare. Variations in wholesale prices usually take about three weeks to reflect in retail markets. Pansare admitted that the market received 9,850 quintal of onions on Wednesday against the normal average of 25,000 quintal.     The city’s restaurants, meanwhile, are girding up for difficult times. Narayana Alva, president of AHAR, an association of over 8,000 Mumbai restaurants, bars and hotels, said: “We have stopped offering some dishes to save onion and garlic.”     He said many restaurateurs have taken items like onion uttapam, kanda poha, onion salad, kanda bhajji off their menus.     Meanwhile, in a bid to steady the spiralling prices, the state on Wednesday promised to compensate farmers who suffered losses this year due to unseasonal rainfall. Under the plan, onion farmers will be given Rs 7,000 per hectare and farmers growing fruit between Rs 15,000 and Rs 20,000 per hectare. The farmers will be recompensed for maximum two hectares.
Housewives fall back on cheaper cabbage, pumpkin dishes Bella Jaisinghani TNN Mumbai: Braving the bored looks on their children’s faces, housewives across the city have been serving up repeat preparations of cabbage, pumpkin and bitter gourd, the few remaining vegetables that are available for up to Rs 20-30 per kg. The homemakers have little choice. The aspiration prices of onion, tomato and garlic, coupled with the Rs 60-per-kg rate of cauliflower, green peas, French beans and cluster beans, have pushed the cost of a single dish into triple figures.     Borivli resident Anandita Ghosh went to market on Tuesday to find tomatoes selling for Rs 40 per kg. “Last winter, they were selling for Rs 10 per kg. The women were asking the vendor for cheaper vegetables that are priced around Rs 30-40 per kg,” said the homemaker.     Ghosh ducked the gloom when the vendor quoted Rs 70 per kg of onions. Like her neighbours, she has been preparing pumpkin that costs Rs 20 per kg more than once a week.     Mumbaikars living in high-rises too are faced with a vexatious choice. “We belong to the Karwari community that is used to preparing half a kilo of dry vegetables each day,” says Dadar homemaker Neeta Dalvi whose husband runs a small-scale industrial unit. “But these days I buy a quarter kilo and cook them in a curry to increase volume. Coconut which we use every day has gone up from Rs 10 to Rs 16 for no ostensible reason. Traders are simply cashing in on the situation.”     With eggs selling Rs 40 a dozen and chicken upwards of Rs 90 per kg, Christmas festivities are also muted. At first glance the household of William Shinde in Khar makes a happy picture as the couple and their two children put together the holy crib. However, like the family of Tiny Tim in A Christmas Carol, the Shindes are trying to set aside their troubles at this auspicious time. “The latest increase in the cost of food items has come at Christmas time. Housewives are wondering how to make ends meet let alone laying out a feast,” says William, a Maharashtrian Catholic.
Vegetable prices hit tearful heights Tomato, Garlic, Beans Go The Onion Way Bella Jaisinghani TNN Mumbai: Putting food on the table is increasingly becoming an exercise in indulgence for the city’s millions. While onions and garlic, priced at Rs 70-80 and Rs 280-450 per kg respectively, have already been dispensed from most kitchens, garden vegetables like lady finger, cauliflower, French beans and cluster beans are on their way out because of their shocking price of Rs 60 or more per kg. The humble coconut, a staple of western and south Indian cuisine, meanwhile, has climbed from Rs 10 to Rs 16-18 over the last few weeks. The real shocker, however, was tomato which began selling on Wednesday for Rs 50 per kg in Mumbai’s retail market, sending waves of anxiety among households that use it as an escape route from the suffocating bur- den of high-priced onions. Most households use a combination of the two to prepare a base for Indian curries and gravy dishes. Though Pakistani onions have begun trickling into the north Indian market, it is not expected to make a sufficient dent to restore prices to the level of Rs 10-12     per kg that is normal for this time of year. Meanwhile, hoarders and speculators are making the most of the situation.     Over Monday and Tuesday, retailers in areas like Andheri and Jogeshwari tagged old stock with new prices. Onions that sold for Rs 42 per kg on Monday were selling for Rs 70-80 per kg on Wednesday, earning storeowners a near 100% profit. In Lokhandwala Complex, a few stores hiked up rates of old stock to Rs 74 per kg, and marked up the cost for half a kg to Rs 39.     On Wednesday, small bunches of staple winter leaves like spinach, methi, sarson and chauli cost Rs 12-15, while a small bunch of coriander sold for Rs 5. Most vegetables of choice like lady finger, cauliflower, French beans and cluster beans were selling for Rs 60 per kg. Even bitter gourd and striped brinjal that had come to rest at Rs 40 per kg for the last few months were selling for Rs 50-60.     As a result, tables are being laden with repeat menus of cabbage, pumpkin and green gourd which are the only vegetables costing under Rs 30-40 per kg. In a quirky contrast, green peas that cost Rs 160 per kg in September-October have suddenly become more affordable at Rs 50-60 per kg and are making a welcome appearance in households that had missed them for months.     Cutting across economic class, Mumbaikars are wondering why vegetables should cost so much in winter when prices are usually at their lowest. “Clearly, unscrupulous wholesalers and retailers, not to mention hoarders and speculators, are engaging in     corrupt practices and it is time the     government curbed these malpractices,” says Dadar resident     Neeta Dalvi, who is considering asking her husband to bring onions from his trips to Nashik and Satara.
EXCEPTION HERE
In city, other veggies too cost a bomb TIMES NEWS NETWORK Mumbai: As the government raced to curb the tearful backlash over spiralling onion prices, another battlefront opened up with costs of common garden vegetables like lady finger, cauliflower, French beans and cluster beans hitting the Rs 60-a-kg mark in Mumbai.     Matters were made worse by a spike in the cost of tomato–Rs 50 per kg, and coconut, to Rs 16-18. The unremitting hikes have forced many city restaurants to inflate their rates and take some dishes off their menus. P 2 
The Great Onion Robbery: 135% mark-up from wholesale to retail Supply Up 66% Since 2008, But Prices Rise 300% Subodh Varma TNN New Delhi: Speculative traders are making super profits by fixing prices in the onion trade while the government is playing around with ad hoc fixes. On a single day on Tuesday, wholesale traders in Delhi bought onions at about Rs 34 per kg while it was sold in retail at Rs 80 per kg. That’s a margin of Rs 46 per kg or 135%!     This story is not confined to Delhi alone. In 44 major onion markets across the country, profit margins for just one day ranged between Rs 1,500 per quintal in Pune and Rs 5,500 in Udaipur. Multiply these with the daily arrivals (and sale) of onions in each, and you get the gigantic amounts fleeced from consumers every day—over Rs 10.5 crore in Bangalore, Rs 81.4 lakh in Mumbai, Rs 1.3 crore in Kolkata, and so on.     Agriculture minister Sharad Pawar has said that it may take 2-3 weeks for prices to come down. That’s enough time for hundreds of crores of rupees to be thus redistributed. PAWAR AND PRICES Some statements by Sharad Pawar that failed to dampen soaring prices MILK | JAN 20 There is a serious shortage of milk, and there is pressure to increase prices PAWAR AT DELHI SEMINAR IMPACT Jan 22: Maharashtra’s dairies announce milk will cost 2 more per litre Jan 30: Amul raises prices of its brands ‘Taaza’ and ‘Slim and Trim’ by 1 per litre and those of ‘Gold’ and ‘Shakti’ by 2 per litre in Gujarat SUGAR | JAN 11, 2010     I am not an     astrologer to predict when prices would come down IMPACT: Prices shoot up to 50 a kg July 31, 2009: Pawar tells Rajya Sabha price of sugar can go up as its production has been insufficient so far due to inadequate rains IMPACT: Prices remain high for the rest of the year ONIONS Onion prices will remain high for next three weeks and the situation is likely to improve only after two-three weeks IMPACT: Retail prices remain high at 70-80/kg Who’s crying, who’s laughing to the bank?     Daily wholesale price data is collected by the National Horticultural Research & Development Foundation (NHRDF) set up by Nafed, the farmers’ cooperative federation run by the government. About 11,445 quintals of onion was bought in the Delhi wholesale markets on that day. So, the total difference between what the wholesale traders paid and what households paid from their pockets would be over Rs 4 crore. Of course, there are transport costs, some wastage and so on. But this can at best be a minuscule fraction of the 135% margin.     So, who is cornering the mega profits? There is a fog of contradictory claims and halftruths that surround this key issue. Kewal Kapoor, an onion commission agent in Delhi’s Azadpur mandi, said that onions were sold to wholesale traders at not more than Rs 50 per kg. The commission agents charge 6% for putting the seller in touch with the buyer. That will mark up the price to Rs 53 per kg. All subsequent hikes are mark-ups by chains of traders, apart from the minor incidental costs mentioned earlier.     But another agent in the same mandi, Mohit Kumar said that wholesale prices itself were Rs 70-80 per kg. “Retailers can’t act together, they are just individuals. They take a small profit,” he said. Kapil Chawla, a trader, blamed the huge surge in exports for the depletion of stocks causing a supply constraint and hence high prices. “It's all a matter of supply-demand!” he said.     The whole supply constraint argument is itself under a cloud. In December, Delhi received 2.57 lakh quintals of onion compared to about 3.8 lakh quintals in 2009 and just 1.5 lakh quintals in 2008. But the modal price (the most frequently settled price) in December was Rs 34 this year, Rs 14 in 2009 and Rs 11 in 2008.     So, over a two-year period, onion supply has increased almost 66% since 2008, but wholesale prices have jumped over 300% in the period. Clearly, there is more to it than simple demand-supply equations.     Exports are definitely restricting domestic supply. India’s exports have increased from about 7.8 lakh metric tonnes in 2005-06 to over 18.7 lakh MT in 2009-10. Onion production has also increased, but at a slower rate, from 86 lakh MT in 2005-06 to over 121 lakh MT in 2009-10. So, onion supply stands on a razor’s edge, vulnerable to both export surges and acts of God.     It is this that gives the speculator and hoarder the handle to exploit demand-supply disruptions and make a killing. But the immediate and real solution clearly lies in tough regulation of speculative markups of the kind seen in recent days. These are nothing short of daylight robbery.
Panel puts off diesel price hike Sanjay Dutta TNN New Delhi: The ministerial panel on fuels under Pranab Mukherjee has deferred a decision on raising diesel price in view of the sudden spurt in onion prices and a weekend public function at IndianOil Corporation’s Haldia refinery that will see the finance minister practically launch Congress’s electioneering in West Bengal.     The panel was scheduled to meet on Wednesday to decide on raising diesel price by Rs 1.50-2 a litre. But the meeting has been put off. Official reason: some ministers on the panel are “unavailable”. The fact, however, is that increasing diesel price now would have invited more bad name for the UPA government, hemmed in by high inflation and corruption charges.
Price rise eases in futures mkt Data Shows Commodity Prices Will Rise Marginally Or Fall TIMES NEWS NETWORK New Delhi: The government, which is battling the pressure of rising food inflation, can draw comfort from the possibility of a lower increase in the coming months. At least that is what futures trading data on the commodity market points to.     The only exception is chilli, where prices for the contract maturing in February are Rs 7,380 a quintal, which is 19% higher than the spot price of Rs 6,178 a quintal. For the contract maturing in March, the premium over the present spot price is of the order of 22%, indicating that prices would rise by this level over the next three months.     According to traders, higher export demand and a fall in supplies from the producing belts had resulted in an increase of around Rs 100 a tonne in the spot market on Thursday.     Futures trading enables market participants to buy and sell specified amounts of a product at a pre-determined price on a specified date. The prices can keep changing during the contract period depending on developments in the market and production and supply trends.     While the market is complaining of potato production being hit in certain parts of the country, a steep increase in prices is not predicted at the moment. The only factor that could affect this would be acute cold weather in north India, which could spoil the crop.     In case of wheat, where production is expected to be abundant this season, the futures market indicates that prices would rise only marginally next month.     In case of chana too, the prognosis is largely similar, though the premium for January futures compared to the spot price is a little over 3%. In case of jeera, the trend is quite the opposite with prices expected to decline in the coming few weeks. While export demand is weak, there were some fears in the market that sowing has been lower.     In case of onions, sugar and some other spices, the data is unavailable as futures trading in these commodities is not taking place at present.     On Thursday, Forward Markets Commission, the regulator for the business, approved the re-launch of futures trading in sugar. Trading was suspended in May last year.
T H E Y SA I D I T
MP CM’s wife seeks loan to buy onions Bhopal: In a bid to rub it in, the wife of MP CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Thursday filled up an application for a bank loan to buy onions.     Sadhna Singh is also the vice-president of the women’s cell of the state BJP, which took part in a street protest here against the soaring prices of onions. At the protest, she filled up a form to apply for a bank loan to buy onions, which are, in some retail markets of India, still priced at Rs 60-70 a kg. The protesters marched to the State Bank of India’s TT Nagar branch.     Sadhna Singh said: “Even my home budget has got disturbed as prices of every vegetable has gone up.” Pak exporting despite poor crop: Pakistani traders are exporting onions to India despite their crop production lagging 30 -40% behind home demand. One hundred tonnes are being exported every day since Wednesday. AGENCIES
Now, milk & oil may burn a hole in your pocket Sidhartha TNN New Delhi: After onions, milk and edible oil could be the next frontier for the government with top officials saying a team led by cabinet secretary K M Chandrasekhar had noticed a sharp increase in prices of these two essential food products.     According to data compiled by the ministry of food and consumer affairs, in Delhi, milk prices have climbed by over 9% over the 12 months till the end of November, putting further strain on household budgets. According to the latest food inflation numbers, milk prices have gone up by close to 18% for the year upto December 11.     Similarly, over the last 12 onths, price of edible oil has gone up by anywhere between 5% in case of mustard oil and over 43% (the landed cost of crude palm oil) in various wholesale and retail markets across the country.     Though onions are in prime focus at the moment, with various government agencies roped in to tame the price of the politicallysensitive food item, officials said that with food inflation on the rise, the government would step in to keep the price of these commodities under control. However, controlling the price of commodities such as palm oil, which is largely imported into the country, could prove to be a tough task. Though milk production is expected to improve marginally during the winter, there could be some pressure on prices as the temperature rises. The outlook for edible oil, however, is bleak. In international markets, palm oil prices have climbed by 37% this year on the prospect of rising demand from India and China, the biggest users, and this might strain global supplies that have been affected by rain and drought in producer countries.     Dry weather in Brazil and Argentina has also put pressure on soyabean at a time when China is seeking more of the commodity. As a result, prices are 31% higher, according to Bloomberg data. According to government data, in the Indore wholesale market, price of soybean oil climbed by 15.6%, while in the retail market in Bhopal, it decreased by over 18% during the year till the end of November.
A BIG HEADACHE Govt pulls out all stops on onions To Import From B’desh, Pak & Canada TIMES NEWS NETWORK NewDelhi:Singed by the political heat over high onion prices, the government moved on a war footing to import the aam admi’s stock vegetable from countries as diverse as Bangladesh, Pakistan and Canada.     While state-owned STC, MMTC and Project Exports Corporation have been mandated to urgently import onions to be delivered by air to northern India and by sea to the western coast, the quantities and modalities for getting the shipments into the country are expected to be finalized by late on Thursday. A mechanism to compensate these companies in case of losses and for subsidized sale was also expected to be worked out in the coming days.     The details are being worked out by the commerce ministry. Officials said the current price of onions in international markets was not high but could rise with India placing orders. Some felt the situation could have been anticipated better.     With prices softening, agriculture cooperative Nafed, however, said it had deferred onion imports from Pakistan. “Earlier, we had decided to send our officers to Pakistan to import 2,200 tonnes of onion. However, as the price of the commodity has started to decline, we have now deferred our plan to import,” Nafed chairman Bijender Singh said.     On Wednesday, the government decided to import onions soon after agriculture minister Sharad Pawar said the government was not looking at the option. A high-level meeting chaired by cabinet secretary K M Chandrasekhar and attended by senior commerce, agriculture and consumer affairs officials felt imports were essential to cool domestic prices.     Though it will take a while for onions from destinations like Canada to reach India, the government is hoping that contracting imports will dampen the heated market sentiment. “The PSUs have been mandated to import onions wherever they are available on absolute priority. They can be delivered by air as well as sea,” commerce minister Anand Sharma told TOI.     Despite the urgency displayed by the government, it may take a while for retail prices to subside despite the low rates in major mandis. Though imports are being fast-tracked, it may take a week or 10 days for onions to reach India and push down retail rates. The second kharif crop from Maharashtra and Rajasthan is also three weeks away.     The government moved to facilitate transportation of stock from areas like Gujarat and Karnataka where some surplus is available and railways has been asked to provide extra rakes on priority. The government also froze noobjection certificates to importers and extended indefinitely the ban it has imposed on onion exports.     With action on hoarding and speculators very much in the realm of state governments, the Centre has urged them to take strict action under the Essential Commodities Act. Onion hoarders to be raided: Maha minister Pune: Traders hoarding onions will be raided and the seized stock will be sold at retail grocery outlets run by consumer federations in 2-kg packs, state agriculture and marketing minister Radhakrishna Vikhe Patil said on Thursday. He met state agriculture commissioner, senior officials of marketing department, representatives of agriculture produce marketing committees and other government official to formulate an action plan to control the onion crisis.
Co-op stores to come to rescue TIMES NEWS NETWORK Mumbai: In an attempt to bring down the sky-high prices of onion, cooperative market chains in the state decided on Thursday to procure onion directly from farmers and make it available at cheaper rates to Mumbai and Thane citizens.     “The onion crop, once procured directly from farmers, will be made available to citizens at a lower rate than the existing Rs 60-65 per kg,” said a senior official attached to the state co-operative sector. Transportation and handling cost will be added to the cost of the bulb, the official added.     According to the department, cheaper onion would be made available from Friday at 18 cooperative retail centres in Mumbai and at 10 such outlets in Thane.     Meanwhile, Union finance minister Pranab Mukherjee, who was in the city on Thursday to review indirect tax collection, said the Centre will continue importing onion to rein in prices.     The minister blamed the high prices of onion and other food items for an over 2% rise in food inflation. According to the latest figures released by the finance ministry, food inflation has risen to 12.13%, touching a sixweek high.     “While the monthly wholesale price index was still in single digits at 7-8%, weekly fluctuations were taking place owing to the upward movement of prices of food items,” Mukherjee said.     Admitting that this was a matter of concern, he said that he was hoping that countermeasures like banning exports and removal of import duty on onion will help control prices.     The minister hoped that a bumper crop of pulses—a surplus of over 2 million tonne, according to him-—will help reduce the burden on households.
Retail onion prices begin peeling off Drop By . 10 From Wednesday’s High Of . 70/Kg Vijay Singh & Bella Jaisinghani TNN Mumbai: In a mild thaw, retail prices of onion fell by Rs 10 per kg in the city on Thursday. With wholesale prices having started to decrease on Wednesday, the effects of the dip trickled down, but the essential food item still remained out of reach of many at Rs 60-65 per kg.     Apna Bazar stores across Mumbai were selling the bulb at Rs 60-62 per kg on Thursday, down from Rs 70 a day earlier. The store’s Mulund outlet confirmed that prices were expected to fall by a further Rs 10 on Friday. Its Andheri store, which buys directly from the Agricultural Produce Market Committee (APMC) in Vashi, said a reduction in wholesale rates would enable them to pass on the benefits to their consumers. In Koparkhairane in Navi Mumbai, Sahakar Grah Bazar quoted a price of Rs 56 per kg, down from yesterday’s rate of Rs 60.     Hoarders and speculators, meanwhile, seemed to have taken the cue from the rising public anger. Grain stores in Lokhandwala Complex, which were selling the humble onion for Rs 74 per kg on Wednesday, brought down their prices to Rs 64 per kg on Thursday. Some had procured stocks last week before wholesale rates witnessed a spike.     Onions are normally sold around the country, including Mumbai, for Rs 10-12 per kg. It remains to be seen whether the government ban on exports as well as the imports from Pakistan will manage to restore a semblance of normalcy.     Meanwhile, tomato exports have begun to hurt the Indian consumer with this other staple costing Rs 45-60 per kg in Mumbai.     On Thursday, wholesale rates of onion at the APMC in Vashi dipped from Wednesday’s Rs 40-55 per kg to Rs 20-40 per kg, owing to the removal of import duty and the arrival of fresh stocks. Given the rampant profiteering by middlemen, TOI asked wholesalers the rate at which farmers in Nashik sell their produce for. APMC traders claimed they were selling in the range of Rs 10-15 per kg. However, it is learnt that poor farmers desperate to wipe out losses are making distress sales at a third of this price. Farmers back in Nashik and Lasalgaon say they are getting around Rs 4-8 per kg from unscrupulous middlemen and traders who in turn hike retail rates to abnormal levels of Rs 70-80 per kg.
‘Chahiye thoda pyaaz, thoda pyaaz chahiye’ Bella Jaisinghani TNN Mumbai: Coating their bitterness in sweet sarcasm, Mumbaikars have been penning punchy poems on sky-high onion prices and sending out droll SMSes.     With vegetables becoming a status symbol, funny sights were unfolding in marketplaces around town. In Lokhandwala Complex, for instance, memsahibs given to carrying Birkins and dinky LVs turned up at roadside stalls in SUVs and stilettos, filling transparent bags with a heavy load of greens. Naturally, the accompanying house help did the bargaining.     In a marked contrast to the officious All India Radio news bulletins, FM radio stations painted the town red with smart spoofs on onion prices. One station aired a qawwali whose writer finds onions more appealing than Bipasha Basu. “Kanda bhajia aur kanda poha ko karenge miss, Dono ko dete hain flying kiss,” read the verse.     Water-cooler conversations revolved around dacoits who choose to loot onion godowns over banks and how bridegrooms demand the bulb in dowry.     Of course, the internet helped in the cause. A certain Darshil has composed a song titled ‘Dr Darshil ki doongli: A Gujju Doorie song’. Another cried, ‘Chahiye thoda pyaaz, thoda pyaaz chahiye’, only to be met with ‘Kanda badnam hua minister tere liye.’     Onion witticisms borrowed heavily from Bollywood. In one internet joke, lending a 2010 touch to Salim-Javed’s ‘Deewar’ dialogue, one brother says to another, “Mere paas bangla hai, gaadi hai, Ferrari hai, tumhare paas kya hai?” After the famous pause, the other retorts, “Mere paas das rupaye kilo kharida gaya godown bharke pyaaz hai.”     The laughs continued. If Guru Dutt were alive today he would make a film named ‘Pyaaza’ about a poet struggling to buy one kilo onion. Blogger Satish Vanahalli quipped that filmmaker Shankar was about to remake ‘Anniyan’; it will now be called ‘Onion’. And in all this, how could Rajinikanth be far behind? One wag said the actor can make onions cry, but asked if he can reduce prices. One Prakash Kumar wants to know if there are onion seeds for sale in FarmVille.     Narendra Khandal and Partha Roy suggested that people invest in land, gold and onion for a bright future. Business-minded Honey Kapoor handed out investment tips, suggesting people buy onions at Rs 45 and target Rs 60-70, perhaps doing the same for LPG and petrol.     Antony Praveen pointed out: “Onion@100... after Sachin onion is the one to hit a century.” Funnyman Manindra Singh asked, “Why did the male onion ditch his girlfriend? Coz she was high maintenance.” But what Kanwar Sodhi really wanted to know was that if someone’s acting really pricey, do we say they are going onions?
Pricey veggies take food inflation to double digits TIMES NEWS NETWORK NewDelhi: The pinch that you have been feeling because of spiralling prices is now being borne out by figures. A worried government discovered to its dismay on Thursday that food price inflation has bounced back into double digits on the back of soaring onion, tomato and fruit prices.     Economists did not rule out the possibility of a further increase in the coming weeks as the prices of spices, fruits and vegetables have shot up in the second half of December and are expected to remain high for a few more weeks. This is expected to find expression in the next food inflation figure.     According to data released by the commerce ministry, year-onyear food inflation rose to 12.13% in the week ending December 11 compared to 9.46% in the previous week. This is the third consecutive week that food inflation has risen after showing brief signs of moderation on hopes of robust crops following good monsoon rains. PINCHING HARD ‘Rising food prices will put pressure on inflation’     Around 60% of the increase in food inflation has been attributed to fruits and vegetables alone.     Finance minister Pranab Mukherjee said there had been some upward movement in the prices of food items and one of the reasons may be the high onion rates. However, there was good news on the pulses front. High prices of pulses have pushed up overall inflation in the past. “This year, the production of pulses may be 2 million tonnes more than what it was last year,” the minister said, adding, “That means to that extent it will have its impact, and the prices of pulses have already started coming down.”     Opposition parties have stepped up their attack on the government and even taken to the streets over the runaway prices. Though the prices of onion started coming down following the steps taken by the government over the last two days, concerns of a fresh round of spike in the prices of tomato and garlic have gripped households. Government officials, however, termed these as local and seasonal issues. Interestingly, the marginal dip in onion prices has prompted agricultural cooperative Nafed to lower imports from Pakistan. Whether this will slow down the price decline is not known.     The index for the food articles group rose to 185.8 from 181.7 for the previous week due to higher prices of fruits and vegetables (6%), fish-marine (5%), fish-inland and condiments & spices (3% each), barley (2%) and bajra, urad, maize and rice (1% each). Onion prices rose 33.48% on an annual basis, while fruit and milk prices rose 20.15% and 17.83%, respectively.     Economists said the worst was still to come as far as food prices were concerned. “This data is for the week ending December 11. Onion prices went up last week and they will have a significant impact in the coming weeks’ data,” N R Bhanumurthy, economist at the National Institute of Public Finance and Policy, said.     “Higher prices of vegetables, fibre and petrol are expected to impart pressure on inflation, and it is unlikely to register any notable decline in December 2010, relative to the previous month,” said Aditi Nayar, economist at rating agency ICRA.
TIME TO MAKE MERRY If you happen to be in Bandra, the Queen of Surburbs, today, here's what you can do to celebrate Noel in style... Marcellus Baptista     It’s always a very merry Christmas in Bandra. A short stroll away from the quaint railway station takes you to Hill Road that spells Christmas all the way. Actually, the Christmas story is on either side of the road, for that’s where you know for sure it’s Christmas time in the city and that Santa Claus is alive and kicking! The Yule fervour     Forget the crazy traffic in the centre of the road, just focus your attention on the Christmas trees, baubles, red hats, green hollies, tinsel, stars, fairy lights, streamers and much more that are stocked or hanging from makeshift clothes lines across these decorated shops and stalls. Of course, also on view are statues of Jesus, Mary and Joseph, the shepherds and their flock of sheep, and the Three Wise Men, lest you forget about the very essence of Christmas. These statues can be used for that little crib at home or perhaps for a huge one in the neighbourhood square.     Truly, it’s the neighbourhood feeling that emanates in the picturesque pockets around Bandra — like Ranwar and Pali villages and roads with names like Chimbai Road, Chapel Road, D’Monte Street and St. Anthony’s Road, thankfully not renamed with the passage of time. It’s that time of the year to wake up the neighbours (not that they are sleeping) with Christmas carols played at full volume. Yes, it’s not Silent Night but rather Jingle Bells and Rudolph the Rednosed Reindeer and I Saw Mama Kissing Santa Claus. Dress your best     Sales in shops and malls beckon but the old-fashioned and traditional Bandra boy and girl, man and woman, insist on visiting the neighbourhood tailor. Yes, it’s time for that exquisite and elegant dress for the lady and a longsleeved shirt and formal trousers for the gentleman with perhaps a three-piece suit thrown in for good measure, though a wedding suit can be suitable for Christmas, too. And one must not forget the shiny shoes, polished to perfection, to be purchased to complete the entire ensemble. Shake a leg     The shoes on sale are also meant for all the Christmas Ball's that you can go to, perhaps at the Bandra Gymkhana with everyone doing the foxtrot and the jive and the waltz. Pubs and nightclubs with their salsa steps and dirty dancing and Bollywood jhatkas may have caught on all across the city, but to the true Bandra ‘bugger’ and Bandra ‘chick’ it’s the gymkhana dance that rules. Eat, Drink and make merry     Nothing has changed, it’s still a crowded affair with things hotting up on the tennis courts and the members and guests smuggling in bottles of spirit (though they are available at the bar, too) to help them make it through the night.     The practice of purchasing Christmas cards and going to the post office may have diminished in this age of e-cards and social networking sites, but you can still enjoy the most talented musicians singing their hearts out in carol singing sessions at the Supari Talao and you still catch sight of children collecting money for the ‘old man’ to be burnt as one year gives way to the next. Thankfully, they’re not digging up Hill Road this time around but they are very much at it on Bazaar Road with the narrow road split right down the middle and the residents concerned on not just the price of onions!
Growth may return to 9% next year, says Montek TNN & AGENCIES Mumbai: Planning commission deputy chairman Montek Singh Ahluwalia is confident that India’s growth rate will soon return to its peak of 9%. Speaking at the Indian Institute of Technology, Bombay, on Friday, he said, “This year we had set a target of 8.5% (for GDP growth), certainly that will be exceeded based on first half numbers. We are hoping that next year, we can get back to 9%... the record till now is quite impressive.”     The country’s economy had witnessed a 9% growth for four years in a row before the global financial crisis in 2008, after which it slid to 6.7% and 7.4% in the past two years.     President Pratibha Patil had said on Thursday that the Indian GDP growth will be up to 10% in FY12 while other agencies, including the ministry of finance, have been upwardly revising the growth target ever since the GDP rose 8.9% for the April-September quarter.     Asserting that a widening trade deficit is not worrisome, Ahluwalia said the country can comfortably sustain with a 3% deficit in the current account every year for the next decade. Traditionally, India’s current account deficit has been 1%. Ahluwalia said, “I am making a projection that India can run a bigger deficit which can be financed by long term reliable capital flows ... mainly FDI flows.”     The challenges before the economy in the next decade, Ahluwalia said, are making the growth inclusive, volatile energy prices, inefficient use of water and rapid urbanization.     The prices of onions in India have started to come down and won’t have an impact on the inflation outlook, Ahluwalia said on Friday. The price of onions in India jumped nearly 350% early this month before easing after the government stepped in to ban exports and scrap import duties.
S N A P J U D G M E N T
Govt’s price monitoring panel slept as price soared TIMES NEWS NETWORK New Delhi: The onion crisis that left the Centre teary eyed has highlighted the inefficacy of the government’s price-monitoring mechanism that tends to mechanically compile inputs from state governments without realtime intelligence on supplies or market mood.     The ministry of consumer affairs seems to have belatedly realized the need to improve the price monitoring committee’s capacities as it provided no clue about the onion storm that hit the UPA-2 on Monday with retail prices more than doubling over the weekend.     The retail price report showed onion prices in Delhi last on December 15 to be Rs 31 a kg. Friday was a government holiday for Moharram and over the weekend thereafter, onion prices simply went through the roof.     On Monday, reports of onions touching Rs 75-80 a kg shook the city and the government. Now, the December 22 price on the report is Rs 64 a kg.     Decisions taken by the government, such as banning exports and reducing import duties to zero while also looking to import onions, have brought down wholesale prices. Even as retail rates have cooled, they are still high. Agriculture minister Sharad Pawar said he did not expect onion prices to cool down for two-three weeks till fresh produce reached the markets.     What is worrying officials is that the Centre’s options in anticipating the surge in prices seem to be tied down to mechanisms like the PMC. The failure of the Maharashtra crop was apparent enough and while traders and hoarders seemed absolutely on the ball, the Centre remained apparently oblivious to the impending storm.     If private players had more intelligence on crop situations than the Centre, the utility of the price-monitoring committee was largely restricted to providing comparative prices. Being way out of its depth in doing anything more indepth, there is a need for a more agile response with senior officials being made accountable for its functions.
PM quizzes Pawar on onion price rise Manmohan Announces . 400-Cr Package For Rain-Hit Maha Farmers New Delhi: With high onion prices bringing people across India to tears, PM Manmohan Singh on Friday asked agriculture Minister Sharad Pawar the reasons for the spike, while announcing relief for distressed farmers in Maharashtra.     The matter was raised after an all-party delegation, led by Maharashtra chief minister Prithviraj Chavan, met the PM to seek relief for the state’s farmers. Among those present was Pawar, who is from Maharashtra, the main onion-growing state. At the meeting, the PM announced a Rs 400-crore advance relief package for farmers affected by unseasonal rains in the state that damaged several crops, notably the onion produce, sending prices spiralling.     “Requirement of further assistance will be considered in light of the assessment made by an inter-ministerial central team, after visiting the state,” said a statement from the Prime Minister’s Office.     Manmohan Singh’s chat with Pawar later came against the backdrop of the opposition’s angst at an alleged statement by the agriculture minister three days ago that onion prices could take three weeks to come down. The CPM slammed the government not just for high onion prices, but also for what it called were divergent voices and approach by various ministries on steps needed to bring prices of onions and other vegetables down.     “There are contradictory statements of different ministries regarding the steps required to control the price of onions. For example, there is no unanimity on whether official agencies should import onions or not,” said its politburo.     Pawar’s daughter Supriya Sule defended the comment. “He (Pawar) could have easily said the prices would come down within a week. But then, if the prices had failed to come down, he would have been criticized again,” Sule said in Baramati, her constituency.     Onion prices, meanwhile stabilized at Rs 40 a kg, after kg, thanks to some 175 truckloads ferrying around 1,500 tonnes arriving from Pakistan via the Atari-Wagah border in Punjab.     The Delhi government also ensured the availability of onions through some 400 Mother Dairy outlets in the capital and select Kendriya Bhandar shops, officials said.     As high prices of onions, fruits, milk, eggs, meat and poultry pushed India’s annual food inflation to doubledigits, the government took more steps on Thursday to augment supplies and assured people their financial burden will ease soon.     Apart from asking the state-run trading agencies MMTC, STC and PEC to import onions, cabinet secretary K M Chandrasekhar chaired a key meeting and decided to move the tuber from all possible places to deficit states like the national capital.     Chandrasekhar’s remarks came as India’s food inflation based on wholesale prices zoomed to double-digit 12-13% for the week ended December 11 from 9.46% the week before, marking the third successive week of rise and a four-month high.     Commerce minister Anand Sharma on Thursday said some one million tonnes of the crop, against the annual production of 18 million tonnes, was lost due to unseasonal rains but supplies will be augmented through duty-free imports and the ban on exports. AGENCIES
Now, grapes to sour the mood Manoj Badgeri TNN Mumbai: After onions almost reduced city households to tears, grapes will sour the mood further. Thanks to unseasonal rains that lashed most parts of the state recently, a sizeable chunk of the crop supplied to Mumbai markets has been either destroyed or rendered unfit for consumption. Director of the Mumbai Agricultural Produce Market Committee (MAPMC), Sanjay Pansare, has said that the city will get around 40% less stock this season leading to probable escalation in prices.     Mumbai gets its supply of the fruit from Tasgaon in Sangli, Pune, Narayangaon, Junnar and Nashik. With the postmonsoon rains playing spoilsport, sources hint that the situation will be very much like that the onion crisis.     Pansare said that around 30% of the early harvest, particularly in Nashik and Pune, was destroyed due to the rains and another 10-15% because of the sudden dip in the temperature.     Mumbai markets get four varieties of grapes—the Thompson (seedless), Sharad seedless, Sonaka and Sarita. A small quantity of the best variety grapes make it to the markets as they are mostly exported, said an APMC source.“Due to the sudden decrease in the temperature, most of the grapes’ stock got spoiled and many fruits developed cracks. Due to the unseasonal rains, a majority of the grapevines was destroyed, especially the ones in Satana (Nashik) and Pune,” said Pansare.     Wholesalers and APMC sources said that in the wake of the short supply, there might be a minor hike in prices. Vijay Dhobale, a wholesaler of fruits, confirms that the grapes supply has been hit at the start of season. “A sizeable part of the lot is not fit for eating,” he said.     On the retail front, fruit seller Arjun Dhole, who operates from Crawford Market, said that this season there is a very small stock of good variety grapes.     “Every year, we get around 40% of the first-grade fruits, but this time, we have got only 10 %, while the rest of the stock is not up to the mark,” says Dhole who is also the president of the Mahatma Phule License Holders’ Association. The Sonata black grapes, said Dhole, are the bestsellers this season and are going at Rs 100-150/kg depending on the quality of grapes.     “If the prices rise further, many buyers would opt for other fruits,” said another retailer who runs a stall at Crawford Market.
OUT OF REACH Another round of onion price rise on the cards? Bella Jaisinghani & Vijay Singh TNN Mumbai: Onions continue to cost more than petrol in Mumbai. Now, in a move that could signal another round of price rise, the state government has deferred its decision to sell onions via fair price shops. It may abandon the plan altogether if rates “stabilize” in the open market.     “We are monitoring the price trend closely. Arrangements are in place to start the direct selling mechanism should rates spiral again,’’ a state official said. A meeting was held at Mantralaya on Friday in this regard.     Surprisingly, not a single raid has been conducted on hoarders, who are milking the situation. Observers say that such laxity in the face of a grave situation will embolden hoarders and speculators and provoke a second round of price rise.     On Thursday, state agriculture minister Radhakrishna Vikhe-Patil had announced that the government would sell onions through cooperative stores and ration shops. However, these had not received any intimation till Friday evening.     Meanwhile, the state government signalled that it would wait and watch the situation for a few days. Hoping that the authorities would send fresh stocks, cooperative stores dropped prices by up to Rs 15 per kg in a day.     At Sahakari Bhandar in Colaba, rates of onion fell from Rs 67 to Rs 49 while in Juhu they plummeted from Rs 69 to Rs 55 per kg. “We have read about the problem and we have brought down prices on our own,’’ said a representative of the chain.     On Friday Apna Bazar in Andheri sold onions for Rs 60, Mulund for Rs 55 and Tilak Nagar for Rs 53. The Mangalore Store at Andheri station charged Rs 70 while roadside vendors at Four Bungalows continued to sell the bulb for Rs 80. Dealers in Grant Road, who are charging Rs 50-55 for the small variety of onion and Rs 60-70 for the bigger ones, attribute this swinging difference to several factors. “Apart from quality grades, wholesale prices and suppliers determine retail rates,’’ they said. The state put the blame on “local factors and speculation”.     At Vashi’s APMC market, wholesale rates fell by Rs 10 per kg as arrivals increased on Friday. The director of the onionpotato section, Ashok Walunj, said that current wholesale rates of onion range between Rs 20 and Rs 35, down from Rs 25-45 on Thursday. “Ninety trucks arrived on Friday, up from 80 the day before. Once we receive supply from Pakistan next week, prices will go down further,’’ he said.     Fresh deadlines for normalcy are being promised by the dozen. Vendors said costs will remain high until the new crop arrives around January 14. But the government is pleased that prices have come down to Rs 45-50 per kg, according to its estimate. A senior official from the marketing department said, “The 10,000-tonne stock imported from Pakistan is showing results.” He claimed that stockists have begun disposing of their hoard on realizing that another fresh stock will hit the market. “We are hoping that onion prices will dip below Rs 25 per kg once the new stock arrives.’’ By mid-February, prices could normalize to Rs 10/kg, the official said.
EXCEPTION HERE
E D I T PAG E M A I L B OX MY TIMES MY VOICE A shining role model With reference to the article ‘The Tallest Cricketer’ (Dec 24) by Boria Majumdar, Sachin Tendulkar’s 50th Test hundred has lifted the pall of gloom hanging over us in recent days. Sachin represents a rare blend of high achievement and modesty, which makes him a shining role model for millions of cricket fans. His mind-boggling career statistics are just numbers. What really sets him apart from other talented players of both past and present generations is his approach to each game as if it were his debut. They say he is the new age Don Bradman. Bradman himself famously said of Tendulkar that he reminds him of his own cricketing style. Lesser mortals would have got satiated with all this adulation and riches, but not our batting maestro. He carries on his quest for excellence.     Dushyant Singh Panwar, NEW DELHI Move beyond quotas The editorial ‘Shift The Tracks’ (Dec 24) discusses the real issues dogging the country regarding the reservation policy. It is ironic that, even 63 years after Independence, more and more communities should clamour for job reservation and other benefits. However, the benefits of quotas no longer percolate to the targeted beneficiaries in any community. Bringing more communities within the ambit of reservations is, therefore, at best just a cosmetic, quick-fix solution, not the longlasting remedy for the socio-economic maladies afflicting the nation.     H P Murali, BANGALORE Cooking up a crisis With reference to the editorial ‘Onion Rings’ (Dec 22), agriculture minister Sharad Pawar has to answer for why the nation is reeling under severe food inflation. India being a vast country, damage to crops due to natural calamities in some areas is not unusual. But this gets compensated with good harvests in other regions. Hence, there should actually not be an acute shortage of food items to trigger price rise. However, trading at commodity exchanges leads to manipulation of prices, along with hoarding. While hoarders create artificial shortage and jack up prices, government inaction deepens the crisis. In such situations, official statements like Pawar’s that it will take three weeks to bring down onion prices can only embolden hoarders.     Raj Bagri, KOLKATA
Onions, At Whose Cost? Keeping farm policy out of the economic reforms agenda hits farmers the most Madhu Purnima Kishwar     The panic reaction of the government over onion prices demonstrates yet again that the agenda of economic reforms and liberalisation is destined to remain confined to the corporate sector while farm policy remains hostage to draconian restrictions and statist interventions to appease the influential urban consumer.     Each episode of sharp escalation in onion prices has followed large-scale crop destruction. The crisis of 1998, which led to the downfall of the BJP government in Delhi, was caused by the El Nino factor which destroyed a large part of the crop in Nashik, the onion-growing belt of Maharashtra. When prices rose to Rs 60 a kilo, the Delhi government imported onions from the very countries to which we had earlier exported. Even though the landing price was no less than Rs 60 per kilo, these onions were sold to urban consumers at Rs 10 a kilo through government outlets.     This time large-scale floods in the onion-growing states again led to massive crop destruction with prices shooting up from Rs 30 to Rs 70 a kilo within a week. The media failed to report that even with high prices, the loss of crop has meant that farmers are not recovering even the cost of production. Also, that the cultivation cost has escalated dramatically because farm inputs, including labour costs, have sharply escalated in recent years. With vegetables and fruits, the difference between farm gate price and consumer price can be as high as 400 per cent. Farmers get only a small part of the benefit from rising prices.     But the government does little to correct this distortion. Instead, all we get are knee-jerk reactions announcing sudden bans on exports proving that the issue is being viewed solely from the point of view of the urban consumer, not the farmer. A government sensitive to farmers’ concerns would launch a concerted media campaign to urge urban consumers to bear with short-term inconvenience, to explain that the temporary high prices due to crop shortage would help farmers devastated by crop destruction due to flood to recover part of their losses.     If urban consumers reduce their onion consumption for a few days, prices would stabilise much sooner than with public hysteria around the issue. It is ridiculous to invoke the Essential Commodities Act to ban exports to bring down prices through non-market, statist interventions. Or for our ministers to threaten action against "hoarders." It shows they don't know that onions cannot be stored or hoarded for long. They start drying and losing weight within a week.     This is not to deny that the poor are indeed hit by sharp escalation in food prices. But they are no less adversely hit by lack of sanitation, basic housing or clean drinking water. Yet, these issues never acquire the urgency that urban middle class concerns do.     The panic created by middleclass consumers needs to be seen in perspective. These families think nothing of buying an ice cream cone for Rs 50, a pizza for Rs 400, 1 litre sugarflavoured water for Rs 50 – but go hysterical if onion prices shoot up to Rs 60 a kilo. This happens year after year with crop after crop – sugar, rice, wheat, cotton. At the time of crop harvest, exports are often banned so that prices come crashing down and farmers have to sell at a loss because they don’t have the holding capacity. The moment select traders have acquired the desired crop at artificially depressed prices, export quotas are slowly opened so that these already wealthy merchants make a big killing at the cost of farmers.     Many farmers growing onions and other perishable crops end up ploughing back their crops into the soil because the artificially depressed prices do not even cover the cost of carrying them to the mandi. Our urban-centric media rarely sheds any tears for the plight of indebted farmers at such times.     This economic warfare on the Indian farmer is carried out year after year with the active collusion of the bureaucracy and politicians in return for a share of the booty. The now on, now off export quotas destroy the credibility of India’s export sector and reduce our leverage in the international market. These manipulations are the primary reason for the Indian farmer’s indebtedness.     Needless restrictions on the farm sector have led to depressed incomes, stagnant agricultural production and distortions in trade and pricing, flight of people and capital from the sector, diminishing investments in agriculture which obstructs the organic growth of agro-based industries in villages and consequently results in higher prices of food crops.     The answer to rural poverty does not lie in the government pretending to feed the farmers who feed us all by corruptionridden “welfare” schemes like providing foodgrains to farmers at Rs 2 a kilo. That too distorts market prices and harms the farm sector. Farmers need fair prices for their products, not to live on crumbs thrown by the government.     Just as the corporate sector has flourished even with halfhearted doses of liberalisation and the end of licence-quota raj so also the farm sector can flourish only when the agenda of economic reforms extends to it – which means the dead hand of the government is not allowed to choke the enterprise of our farmers. The policy of restrictive quotas for farm produce export needs to be junked to help farmers earn better prices, which in turn will enable them to invest in improving production. Higher production will inevitably bring down food prices.     The writer is professor, Centre for the Study of Developing Societies, Delhi.
YO U R MONEY Commodity MFs soar, but limit exposure to 5% Excess Liquidity Has Triggered Latest Rally M Allirajan TNN     The onions have made you cry and you would be quite rightly seeing red in tomato rates. But with prices of key commodities including oil and copper on the rise, mutual funds (MFs), that focus on the commodity space, have gained sharply in the past six months.     Four commodities-focused MFs have made it to the top-15 list, including the best performer, that gained about 34% in six months.     There has been a rally in commodities and a secular rally in agricultural commodities. The demand for core commodities (such as crude and coal) is growing but supply side pressures remain, says Mahesh Patil, head, domestic equities, Birla Sun Life MF.     Demand outlook has become much better and commodities are slowly getting back to their earlier high levels, he says. Major commodities are seeing a rally due to the second round of quantitative easing (printing of currency) in the US, according to Surajit Misra, national head, MFs, Bajaj Capital, a distribution platform for funds.     A lot of money is flowing and the excess liquidity is getting into commodities, say observers.     However, only a handful of commodity-oriented MFs are available in the market now and they invest mostly in global stocks and funds. These MFs invest in a range of companies, including Monsanto, Rio Tinto, Posco, Exxon Mobil and global funds with underlying investments in commodity stocks.     Though commodities space is large in the country, only very few stocks are available for investment, say observers. The subsidy regime is a big constraint for public sector oil refiners and upstream producers in India and so investments in stocks in the sector are not favoured, they say.     Commodity prices are now globally linked. So it makes sense to look outside India, says Birla's Patil. Also, the commodity story is increasingly becoming a proxy for the growth of emerging markets. Whenever there is a strong demand for key raw materials in markets such as China, stocks of commodity firms do well pushing up returns from these funds.     But commodity-focused MFs come with come with exchange rate risk and a strong rupee can impact returns adversely, say industry officials. They are quite volatile and in fact in the first six months of 2010 have generated negative returns. These funds also attract higher tax rates than plain equity MFs.     One can take a 5% exposure in global commodity stocks through these funds as a diversification strategy, say experts. One can invest at least once in a quarter in these funds. Inflation is a worldwide concern and commodity MFs, especially funds that focus on agriculture, would be able to deliver good returns, says Misra.
EGoM extends ban on export of pulses TIMES NEWS NETWORK New Delhi: In an effort to ease the burden of rising food prices, the government on Tuesday extended the ban on export of pulses for an indefinite period and released additional quota of wheat and rice for various states to be sold at subsidized rates through ration shops.     The Empowered Group of Ministers (EGoM) on food, headed by FM Pranab Mukherjee, reviewed the price situation in the country and decided to allow duty-free import of pulses until March 2012. The government had banned export of pulses, which have a weight of 0.72% in the wholesale price index, in June 2006.     In Tuesday’s meeting, it was decided to give additional 25 lakh tonne of wheat and rice quota at the BPL (below poverty line) rates to the states, agriculture minister Sharad Pawar said. BPL families have to pay Rs 4.15 per kg for wheat and Rs 5.65 per kg for rice. The 25 lakh tonne is in addition to the normal quota available to this category The agriculture minister also said another 25 lakh tonne of additional quota of wheat and rice would be made available to APL (above poverty line) families. APL families pay Rs 11.85 per kg for rice and Rs 8.45 per kg for wheat.     “A total of 50 lakh tonne of additional quota of wheat and rice has been approved to the states and they can lift the stocks from Wednesday,” Pawar said. The government is reeling under the impact of high food prices. It has taken several steps to ease prices of onions which shot up to Rs 70-Rs 80 per kg last week. It has banned onion exports allowed duty free import of the commodity.     Data released by the commerce and industry ministry last week showed food inflation rose to a six week high of 12.31% for the week ended December 31, heaping more pressure on the government to check spiralling food prices. Vegetable prices have also shot up in recent months and households are finding it difficult to manage their food budgets. Egg and milk prices have also risen against the backdrop of soaring vegetable prices.
E D I T PAG E M A I L B OX MY TIMES MY VOICE A questionable verdict With reference to the editorial ‘Raj Throwback’ (December 27), civil society activist Binayak Sen’s booking under Sections 120B and 124A of the IPC – for hatching a criminal conspiracy and waging war against the state – is shocking, to say the least. These sections give arbitrary powers to the police and can easily be misused. There is no denying that the Naxals have become a huge law and order problem in as many as 150 districts of India. However, can people like Sen be labelled as dissidents waging war against the state for empathising with the Naxals? In this context, the concerns of the civil society activists are justified.     Vijayan Balakrishnan, PUNE No end to farmers’ woes With reference to the article ‘Onions, At Whose Cost?’ (December 27) by Madhu Purnima Kishwar, it is appalling that the government forms policies from the point of view of urban consumers and not farmers. While economic reforms have benefited the rich, they have not improved the lot of the farmers. On the contrary, many farmers have committed suicide in certain parts of the country. This exposes the government’s lack of vision in managing its agriculture policy. Its arbitrary interventions in export-import policy haven’t helped the cause of farmers. As for price rise, that too has always benefited middlemen and traders rather than the farmers.     Ranbir Singh Jakher, MEERUT
Pak onions arrive at APMC market Supplies From Pune Expected To Ease Situation Vijay Singh TNN Navi Mumbai: A fresh stock of imported onions from Lahore, Pakistan, arrived at the APMC wholesale market in Vashi on Tuesday.     Sources said this, along with the supplies that are likely to arrive from Pune region by next week, will help ease the situation.     On account of the onion crisis that led to inflated rates, the Centre had ordered further import of the bulb from Pakistan and also stopped exports in order to stabilize prices.     Ashok Valunj, APMC director (onion-potato section) at Vashi, told TOI that a total of 200 sacks of Pakistani onions weighing around 8 tonnes arrived at the wholesale market in the morning.     “This onion stock actually arrived by road from Punjab, where the import cargo first came from Lahore. So, we will have to bear with the road transportation costs as well while dealing with these onions,” said Valunj. At present, the wholesale rate of onion is in the range of Rs 25 to Rs 40 per kg.     Meanwhile, onion traders at APMC are not particularly happy with the quality of the “Pakistani pyaaz”. “Our onions from Nashik are of better quality than these imported ones. However, this was done by the government only to tide over the crisis,” said a wholesaler.     Valunj said fresh supplies of onions from Pune region were likely to arrive by next week, which would help stabilize prices in the market. “On Tuesday, 80 trucks loaded with onions arrived at APMC. Normally, we have around 130-140 truckloads of daily arrivals. The situation should improve in January,” added Valunj.     The state agriculture ministry, under Radhakrishna Vikhe-Patil, had earlier informed that over 40 tonnes of imported onions from Pakistan would reach the Mumbai sector. Of this, the first 8 tonnes of Pakistani onions reached APMC on Tuesday. The government will keep a close watch on onion transportation and markets in the next few weeks so as to avoid any untoward situation.
E R R AT I C A Backcast for 2011 What this year’s players will be doing in the next Bachi Karkaria     Is January 1 just another date? With the same old destiny, give or take some extra scams, shams and traffic jams? Decidedly. But rituals must be followed to fill media space and time. Year-end wrap-ups have been reminding us of what we’d rather forget, and year-beginning forecasts will make resolutions which we all know won’t last beyond the hangover. So, with just two days to the countdown, allow me to serve up a reconstituted dish for 2011 from 2010’s leftovers.     In deference to 2010’s most prominent feature, the Gujarati greeting, ‘Kem chho?’ will change to ‘Scem Chho?’.     Suresh & Lalit will enter into a partnership called Kalmodi Ltd. It will be launched with a flashy masquerade ball where a makeshift toilet will come dressed as the Queen’s Baton or even video equipment with a 4,50,000-sterling pounds price tag. However, if you see a cheerleader, don’t ask her if she’s actually Manohar Shashank.     The 2G scam will be renamed 20G or 2000G or 20000000000000G depending on the widening spectrum of scamsters, tapes, loss to exchequer…     Speaking of which (though not on the phone), certain mediapersons will be in a race to discover a cure for the termination-illness caused by exposure to Radiation. Naturally, Phase I trials will be conducted by the Tata Memorial Hospital. Not privately, we trust.     Jairam Ramesh will take vanvas, subject to the MoEF certifying him as being nonpolluting. However, such a clearance could be challenged by a host of parties, from builders of new cities to destroyers of old hills. In fact, they could declare Jairam a no-go area. Onion prices will soar, and airlines will remain grounded. Thanks to Saina’s continuing trajectory, in India her game will be referred to as ‘Goodminton’. Sania will have a baby and thereby a legitimate excuse for her nonperformance. Shashi-Sunanda may adopt one. Toh Tweet. The Bachchan baby could finally give the Big B his best role, in and as ‘Grand-Paa’. Shah Rukh Khan’s production house will make a film on Bill Gates. It’s to be titled, ‘My Name Is Daan’. Bigg Boss could be mistaken for Teletubbies, thanks to its new selfcensorship avatar. This means Pamela Anderson will look like an animated bunny instead of an inflatable doll. You will recall that she became a showstopper in a way no one wanted. Ms Anderson has also given new meaning to the phrase ‘disproportionate assets’. Urban realty shows will continue to grab eyeballs and lower counterparts of the home-seeker’s anatomy. As for the two newsiest properties of 2010, Adarsh will demolish our lofty hopes of punishment to the highly placed scamsters. Mukesh Ambani will rise to new heights by adding yet another floor to Antilla. And to end with token cheer, the terrorists will LeT us off the hook for some time.
Looking Back, Looking Ahead 2010 has been a good year for the economy, and 2011 could be better if we manage the risks Sudipto Mundle     Political news continues to dominate the headlines, unfortunately for all the wrong reasons. If you are looking for something to cheer you up for the New Year, turn to the news on the economic front. 2010 has been a good year, and 2011 could be better if we can manage the risks.     High growth is back. Midyear estimates for 2010-11 indicate that the economy is currently growing at an annual rate of 8.9%. Moreover, the high growth is well dispersed, which augurs well for its sustainability through 2011 and beyond. Agriculture is lagging behind with a growth rate of less than 4%. So also the utilities sector – electricity, gas and water supply – growing at less than 5%. All other sectors are growing at over 8%. Some major sectors like manufacturing, transport, communications, wholesale and retail trade, hotels and tourism are growing at remarkable rates of over 11%.     On the demand side, private consumption, capital formation and exports, the three largest components of aggregate demand, are growing at 10.6%, 14.9% and 10.1% respectively in real terms. Responding to this robust growth performance, the stock price index has also climbed back to 20,000. It last reached this level in early 2008 before the global financial crisis triggered its tailspin down to 7,000.     Alongside this buoyancy, there are also some adverse developments. These are risks that will have to be managed if the high growth of 2010 is to be sustained or bettered in 2011. The immediate worry is inflation. Consumer prices continue to increase at near double-digit levels (9.7%), a trend recently dramatised by the sharp rise in onion prices. Currently food prices are inflating at an annual rate of over 12%. The other major source of rising consumer prices is the price of crude oil and related products. These prices are inflating at an annual rate of around 15%, but could go higher if global crude prices keep climbing towards $100 a barrel or more.     For several quarters now, the RBI has been tightening monetary policy to curb inflationary pressures. Commodity specific interventions have also been introduced to stabilise those food prices that have risen most sharply, such as onions now and sugar earlier. However, the government’s basic fiscal policy stance has remained expansionary. The finance minister announced recently that the fiscal stimulus will be retained for some more time, implying a large deficit again in the Budget for 2011-12.     At first glance, this is puzzling, since the main worry now is inflation not growth, and that would call for fiscal compression. However, the finance minister may be anticipating further increases in the price of oil, and providing for compensation to oil companies if they are prevented from fully passing on the price increases to consumers. Hence, paradoxically, the main aim of the deficit may indeed be containing inflation.     A second major risk is the continuing sovereign debt crisis in Europe. After Greece and Ireland, Spain, Portugal and Italy are the next in line for a potential sovereign debt default. If one or more of these countries do default, the effects will be transmitted to India via two main channels. One is trade. A further slowdown or recession in Europe will hurt India’s exports to Europe, and hence its growth. However, that effect will be muted so long as India’s other major trading partners, especially China and the US, remain buoyant. Indeed, growth in the EU area as well as Japan has been quite depressed this year, but its impact on India is barely visible.     The other transmission channel is flow of capital. The volumes of sovereign debt in the countries at risk are not large enough for such defaults to trigger another global recession. In fact, such an event could further divert capital flows from Europe to less risky emerging markets like India, as is already happening to some extent. The recent bull run in the stock market, like that of 2007, has been led by the inflow of portfolio investments from foreign institutional investors. This is not an unmixed blessing. The resulting rupee appreciation has hurt the growth of exports, and a sudden stop or reversal of these flows could again destabilise the market. However, with the US economy recovering, fuelled by Barack Obama’s recent tax cut Bill and exceptional monetary expansion, a second global recession seems improbable. On balance, while Europe remains a negative factor, it is not likely to derail high growth in India.     The third and most important risk is political, the deficit of good governance. Nitish Kumar’s resounding victory in Bihar reinforces the signals from other recent elections, that performance is finally replacing political mobilisation based on caste and religion. Daily revelations about multiple scams, from looting of 2G spectrum sale money and Commonwealth Games money to Adarsh Society and other land allocation deals also suggest that while corruption is widespread and deep-seated, some institutional safeguards are still working. On the other hand, selective targeting of investment proposals has spread great nervousness in the corporate world. Political patronage or the lack of it, not performance, will still be the main determinant of economic success in 2011. The more things seem to change, the more they remain the same.     The writer is emeritus professor at the National Institute of Public Finance and Policy, New Delhi.
E D I T PAG E M A I L B OX MY TIMES MY VOICE Cosmic consciousness With reference to the Q&A (December 24), the latest theory of the universe reinforces the Indian viewpoint that the universe is infinite and cyclical. In the Bhagavad Gita, Arjuna repeatedly refers to infinity. Roger Penrose’s statement points towards the increasing realisation of interdependence between philosophy and science in the West. In fact, Mani Bhaumik, author of The Cosmic Detective: Exploring The Mysteries of Our Universe, goes to the extent of saying that many physicists now talk like Vedic philosophers. There’s room to recognise the extent of human ignorance and the need to develop an attitude proper to knowledge seekers rather than conquerors of the universe. Human cognition is a speck in the cosmic consciousness.     G P Rao, NEW DELHI Push farm reform With reference to the article ‘Onions, At Whose Cost?’ (December 27) by Madhu Purnima Kishwar, it’s appalling that people in urban areas never give a thought to the plight of farmers who are duped by both middlemen traders and retailers. Worse, they expect the government to scale down commodity prices, which often adversely affects farmers. It is time to put farm policy on the economic reforms agenda. Instead of giving food grains at subsidised rates, a strong and sensible farm policy will better serve people’s interests.     Siddhant V Pujari, PUNE
heard saying
Onion pushes food inflation to 10-wk high TIMES NEWS NETWORK New Delhi: Food inflation rose to a 10-week high of 14.44% in the week ended December 18 on the back of soaring onion, vegetable, fruit and other commodity prices, prompting the government to raise its year-end headline inflation forecast to 6.5%. Food inflation was 12.13% in the previous reporting week.     There could be more bad news in store, with economists saying that poultry and milk were likely to further exert pressure on food inflation, though vegetable prices are expected to moderate in the coming weeks. High rate of price rise a new risk factor: RBI     There are weekly variations in prices, but whether these can be corrected in the coming weeks remains to be seen,” FM Pranab Mukherjee said. His revision of the inflation forecast to 6.5% has come barely ten days after PM Manmohan Singh estimated that the year-end inflation will be around 5.5%.     “The speed of decline in food prices will not be what the policymakers expect it to be. Vegetable prices will come down, but egg, meat and fish prices will be under pressure due to the change in dietary patterns in the country,” said Crisil chief economist D K Joshi.     During the week ended December 18, rising onion price was the main culprit, recording a 40% hike from a year ago, while vegetable prices jumped 29.26%. Fruit prices rose 21.97% and egg, meat and fish went up by 20.34%. However, cereal inflation declined significantly, and economists attributed it to the improvement in supply due to the good monsoon.     The RBI, in its financial stability report, said the high rate of price rise had emerged as a new risk factor. “Growth has rebounded strongly, but inflationary pressures are driven both by domestic demand and increasing commodity prices,” it said. The central bank has consistently cautioned about the rising inflationary pressures. It has raised interest rates six times this year, and economists expect it to again hike policy rates in its January 25 review.
HNY 2011 Hordes Of Messages For New Year TIMES NEWS NETWORK Mumbai: Twenty-five-yearold Tanay Soham, who was desperately trying to make plans for New Year’s Eve, was excited when he got an sms party invitation from a friend. However, he was disheartened to know later, that it was a joke.     “I had started preparing for the party. But when I read the full message, to check the venue, I realized it was a joke. It said: ‘67th floor, suite no 25, Burj-E-Khaleefa, Dubai’,” said Tanay.     With 2010 drawing to an end, hordes of messages have been doing the rounds. Apart from the normal bulk ones wishing each other a happy new year, Mumbaikars are tapping a range of emotions–from optimism to naughtiness.     One such sms read: ‘Like birds, let us leave behind what we don’t need to carrygrudges, sadness, pain, fear and regrets–in this New Year’.     Philosophy enthusiasts spent a better part of their time looking up funny connotations to age-old sayings. One of these by Bill Vaughn read: ‘Youth is when you’re allowed to stay up late on New Year's Eve. Middle age is when you're forced to’. Another philosophical one read: ‘For last year’s words belong to last year’s language and next year’s words await another voice. And to make an end is to make a beginning. Happy New Year’.     Some took digs at New Year resolutions: ‘Now is the accepted time to make your regular annual good resolutions. Next week, you can begin paving hell with them as usual’.     People couldn’t help taking digs at soaring onion prices. ‘Robin Uthappa is going to change his name to Onion Utthappa in 2011 and become the costliest player in the world’.     Others anticipated the jamming of networks and sent messages before December 31 itself. One of them said, ‘Before the golden sun sets, old calendar is destroyed and mobile networks get jammed, I wish in new year every moment is enjoyed’.     Some, irritated with the horde of messages, replied to friends: ‘Merry Christmas, Enjoy New Year, Happy Easter, Good luck on Valentine’s, Spooky Halloween & Happy     Birthday. Now buzz off and     don’t annoy me for the next 12 months!!!!’
Change The Game Improved India-Pakistan relations crucial for this decade     If one were to pose the question what would be the single most important transformative event that could occur in South Asia in 2011, the answer has to be peace breaking out between India and Pakistan. This is especially true in the wake of the economic downturn in the West, which has provided a window of opportunity for both countries to enhance their global profile.     There is a lot that the two neighbours can learn from each other. Enhanced trade in products and services could pave the way for great synergy between the economies of the two nations, both of which would save on costs incurred through diversion of trade through third countries. The benefits of an enhanced trade relationship are already evident in Pakistani onions coming in to dampen food price inflation in India. But while this is just a one-off example of an emergency response to an ongoing crisis, just imagine what the positive results could be if trade and investment were freed up across the board. A potential area of close cooperation is the IT sector. There are certainly a number of things that India can learn from the textile sector in Pakistan. Not only would lifting trade and investment barriers directly benefit both economies, getting a fix on jihadi militancy – essential for peace to break out between India and Pakistan – would also multiply foreign investment pouring into Pakistan. But India would benefit too, as it now carries a geopolitical risk due to the terror threat.     There’s ample scope for cooperation in Afghanistan as well. Trying to achieve strategic depth in Afghanistan is a policy that will trap Pakistan in a quagmire of regressive forces. Neither can New Delhi prevent Pakistan from playing a role in Afghanistan. The solution is for both countries to work together to ensure development and stability in Afghanistan.     There is no reason why all outstanding issues between the two countries cannot be resolved if there is political will. Khursheed Kasuri, foreign minister of Pakistan when Pervez Musharraf was president, announced at a conference organised by the Aman ki Asha initiative how a deal on Kashmir was within striking distance under Musharraf. There is no reason why it cannot be revived. New Delhi should reach out, if necessary, directly to the Pakistani military and intelligence apparatus. Alongside official initiatives, people-to-people contacts as well as cultural and academic exchanges should be encouraged. The opportunity cost of not working towards lasting peaceful relations between India and Pakistan is too great a price to pay for the people of both countries.
200 tonnes of onions rot at JNPT as officials pass buck Vijay Singh | TIMES NEWS NETWORK Navi Mumbai: Even as the new year brings little cheer on the price front, the famed apathy of our officials continues to move the common man to tears. Nearly 200 tonnes of onions imported from Pakistan are lying at the Jawaharlal Nehru Port Trust (JNPT) in Nhava Sheva while officials pass the buck for not releasing the bulb to onion-starved markets.     The affected traders have indicated that the cargo is stuck for want of a health NOC (no-objection certificate), but customs officials at the port said they were not aware of this problem due to the extended new year weekend. “It’s been five days since the cargo arrived in 10 containers at JNPT, but due to certain delays, the onions are still lying there, which is worrisome for our traders,’’ Ashok Walunj of the Vashi-based APMC (the wholesale grain and vegetable market for the city), told TOI.     The chief commissioner of customs at JNPT, K R Bhargava, said they had cleared the consignment. “However, no trader came to me after that for further clearance.’’ Since no customs clearance took place on Saturday and Sunday, there is a very real threat that the highly perishable onions might go waste soon. Bhargava said he would be able to take stock of the situation only on Monday. ‘Onion quarantine possible’     JNPT chief spokesperson JK Mhatre told TOI: “It is actually the responsibility of the clearing agents of traders who had ordered the consignment to quickly get the onions to the market.’’ The head of the Central Warehousing Corporation (CWC) at Nhava Sheva, S K Tyagi, also suggested that the cargo may not have got clearance from the customs zone. “I do not have any specific information about the status of these imported stocks. We have 26 container freight stations (CFS) here; the onions could be in any one of these. I will have to talk to the CFS managers on Monday to know their status,’’ said Tyagi.     Asked whether the imported onions can also be withheld or barred if the health NOC was not given, Tyagi said “a quarantine is possible if the onions are not fit for consumption’’.     Clearance from various authorities, including port health officials and the Food Safety & Standards Authority of India (FSSAI), are required for clearing food items, said Bhargava.     On an optimistic note, Walunj said fresh onions from Pune and Nashik were expected to arrive at APMC by January 15, which could stabilize the market.
Winter buffer: Power usage falls to 3-yr low Chittaranjan Tembhekar TNN Mumbai: This winter, power bills are expected to balance out price of onions. The pronounced cold, which followed unseasonal showers during October and November, will bring muchneeded relief in the New Year to Mumbaikars who pay the highest power tariffs in the country. The weather, as the state’s power indicator points out, has forced consumers to switch off their fans and air-conditioners and lower the temperature of refrigerators, thereby reducing power consumption in Mumbai households to a record low.     As mercury dipped to 12.8-degree celsius on the night between years 2010 and 2011, Mumbai’s average power consumption indicator in December showed up consumption of only 1,850 MW of power per daily – 1,250 MW lower than the peak demand of 3,100 MW recorded in the city last summer. If compared with the average daily winter season demand of 2,200 MW in Mumbai, the average consumption in December 2010 is around 350 MW lower.     In terms of average consumption in comparison with the December of 2009 and 2008, the city has registered the lowest figures here as well. According to sources with the state power transmission authorities, Mumbai recorded an average per day consumption of 1,850 MW last month against 1,900 MW in December 2009 and 1,920 MW in December 2008. “Natural cooling will surely lead to lower bills for Mumbaikars,” said a power expert who works closely with Maharashtra Electricity Regulatory Commission (MERC) and the power utilities in the city.     According to sources, suburban Mumbai, which consumes approximately 2,000 MW during peak summer season, is currently using 1,250 MW. Similarly, consumption in the island city dipped to 600 MW from 950 MW in summer.
Milk, tomatoes and garlic hit high notes Bella Jaisinghani TNN Mumbai: Delivering his New Year message to the nation on Friday night, prime minister Manmohan Singh promised that the government would do its best to regulate food prices in 2011. That day, the price of eggs rose by four rupees a dozen. Over Saturday and Sunday, onion and tomato bounced back to unruly heights of Rs 60 per kg, and on Monday, the price of milk went up by a rupee per litre.     Experts warn that the soaring inflation graph of the first three days of the year is a precursor of things to come. “Not only has there not been a single crackdown on hoarders and speculators in Mumbai, it is surprising to see that the state government has revoked the plan to sell fairpriced onions at cooperative stores in the city,’’ said observers. “This demonstrates lack of initiative, if not collusion with vested interests.’’     On December 25, TOI had reported how the state government had quickly revoked its day-old decision to sell cheap onions at fair price shops, a move that could trigger another round of price rise. On December 24, agriculture department led by Radhakrishna Vikhe-Patil announced its decision to sell cheap onions at Apna Bazar and Sahakari Bhandar outlets in the city. In fact, spurred by this promise, these stores began to sell their existing stock at lower rates as they anticipated fresh supplies. However, that was not to be. The government backtracked the next day.     Tomato, meanwhile, continues to hover at the same rate. “A small family of four requires at least a quarter kg of tomato and onions to each day, which means investing Rs 30 in these common items. Add to that the cost of common     vegetables like French beans or cauliflower, each of which comes for not less than Rs 60 per kg,’’ said Anshu Arun, a radio professional who lives in Mhada colony at Andheri. “How is the common citizen expected to cope with this?’’     Meanwhile, the astronomical cost of the humble pod of garlic is shrouded under a haze of reasons ranging from over-export to unseasonal rain. Until May 2010, garlic was selling for Rs 50-60 per kg. This mandatory ingredient in most Indian vegetarian and non-vegetarian preparations has shot up to Rs 28-40 per 100 gms, depending upon whether one buys flakes or whole pods. Vendors very rarely quote the price per kg, which ranges from Rs 280-400, in order to avoid shocking their customers.     Taking a cue from Amul, which increased the rate of milk by Rs 2 per litre last week, milk producers in Maharashtra jacked up prices by one rupee on Monday. On Saturday, CNG went up by Rs 1.10 per kg in New Delhi. Shortly, LPG and piped natural gas are expected to cost more in Mumbai just as they now do in the capital. Ominous signs of a not-so-happy new year.
330 sacks of onions reach Vashi market On Friday, Egg Prices Rose By Rs 4/Dozen, Onions & Tomatoes Sold For Rs 60/Kg. On Monday, Milk Was Up By Re 1/Litre Vijay Singh TNN     Navi Mumbai:     Like an honoured     guest, a consignment of onions—330 sacks—that had been imported from Pakistan arrived at the Agricultural Produce Marketing Committee (APMC) wholesale market in Vashi on Monday. These onions are from an earlier consignment and not part of the eight containers that arrived at Nhava Sheva from Karachi, Pakistan on December 29. But Jawaharlal Nehru Port Trust (JNPT) officials told TOI that the eight containers in question have gone through the clearing process and had been loaded at a container yard on Monday from where the onions will be handed over to traders. This will come as a relief to wholesalers, who have been waiting anxiously for the precious cargo and had alleged that JNPT officials and customs were delaying the clearing process. Officials have refuted these allegations saying that “the imported onions are in good condition in the Container Freight Station (CFS), and have got a final clearance report from the quarantine and Food Safety & Standards Authority of India (FSSAI)”.     JNPT spokesperson J K Mhatre said that port officials were not guilty of dereliction of duty and that the port has only a small role to play in clearing goods. “The process requires coordination between the shipping agent, the container terminal, the customs house agent, container freight station, customs authorities and the FSSAI. The clearing of goods is mainly looked after by the customs,” he said.     Additional commissioner of customs at JNPT, Ataur Rahman confirmed that the imported onions are not spoiled, and have been duly cleared by the customs officials. “These eight containers have also been cleared by our department. This is the standard practice followed,” said Rahman.     While wholesalers have heaved a collective sigh of relief, many have stressed the urgency of clearing perishable goods as soon as possible. APMC director of the onionpotato section, Ashok Walunj, said: “While I agree that the onions imported from Pakistan have to go through the official process at JNPT, such food items should be quickly cleared.” In the wholesale market onions are selling at Rs 30-45 per kg; in the retail sector it’s Rs 50-60 per kg.
EGG PRICES JUMP IN 4 DAYS Bella Jaisinghani TNN     The ‘thali’ index that is popularly used to compute food inflation comprises a balanced lunchtime meal, where the rising cost of each preparation is periodically calculated to determine hike by percentage. Now it seems a wholesome breakfast might be slipping out of hand too. On Friday, the price of eggs rose by Rs 4 per dozen in Mumbai’s markets with the staple breakfast food now costing Rs 42-48 per dozen in most areas of the city, up from Rs 38-44 on Thursday. The uniform wholesale rate across Mumbai stood at Rs 315 for 100 eggs on Monday and is expected to rise by a rupee on Tuesday. Retail rates varied from Rs 42 per dozen in Wadala to Rs 48 per dozen in Andheri west up from Rs 38-44 in those areas a week ago.     Nisar Ahmed of Nazeer Eggs, Wadala, said: “The demand has risen manifold due to the winter chill. Most of the supply is being despatched to Ahmedabad and New Delhi where it is so cold that temperatures have dropped to single digits. Mumbai receives most of its eggs from Hydera- bad apart from interior Maharashtra, and most producers are diverting eggs to the northern states because they are earning a higher price there.’’     Aftab Ahmed Khan, one of the largest wholesalers in the country, points to a series of factors that have influenced the rise in prices. “We do witness a seasonal surge in demand for eggs at Christmas and New Year. This year, the level has been compounded owing to the severe winter and snowstorms that have gripped most parts of north India,’’ said Khan. “In fact, prices could rise further unless demand evens out or drops in the cold states. If the weather improves it could restore some of teh city’s supply in the coming weeks.’’     Retail prices are always Rs 8-10 higher than wholesale rates, though, of course, the price in various parts of the city varies by location and the profit margin that each dealer wants to keep. For instance, eggs were selling for Rs 44 per dozen at Four Bungalows in Andheri on Sunday whereas 2 km away in Lokhandwala Complex, the rate was Rs 48.     Amidst the natural factors, however, traders point out that the pricing situation remains fluid and open to manipulation. “The government can step in to control rates if it wants to. The first thing to do would be to control the cost of poultry feed, which is a real burden on farmers. If the price of maize and other feed escalates by Rs 10 per kg, it has a snowball effect on the wholesale and retail price of poultry products,’’ said Khan. Even big market players like Godrej AgroVet told TOI that the rising costs of feed have been responsible for a hike in the price of chicken.     Industry insiders say that most of the big poultry farms in Maharashtra are owned by politicians. “A prominent leader of the NCP who has recently acquired a major portfolio in the state has a poultry farm which sells nothing less than 1.5 lakh eggs daily,’’ said one trader.     “It remains to be seen whether those who have the power to regulate prices will allow the rate of eggs to fall once the season is out. Vested interests are milking a minor shortage to reap vast profits,“ he added.
An egg now costs . 4; milk, garlic dearer Bella Jaisinghani TNN Mumbai: Breakfast just got dearer. Food inflation continues to haunt the city with the onset of 2011, and after moong dal and sugar grabbed headlines last year, eggs—the common man’s staple—are now burning a hole in the Mumbaikar’s wallet. In four days, the price of eggs has risen by Rs 4/ dozen. A dozen eggs are selling for Rs 44-48 since Friday, up from Thursday’s Rs 38-44.     The sudden demand for eggs in north India has led suppliers in Hyderabad to bypass Mumbai for a more lucrative market. Most poultry farms in Maharashtra are owned by politicians, who have the power to regulate prices, said one of the biggest wholesalers in India.     The price of milk, too, rose by Re 1/litre on Monday. Garlic, which was Rs 50-60/kg in May 2010, is retailing at Rs 280-400/kg. Tomatoes were back at Rs 60/kg over the weekend.
Consumer durable prices jump by 10% Godrej, Samsung Pass On Rising Costs To Buyers Namrata Singh & Samidha Sharma TNN Mumbai: If the shooting prices of onions, eggs and garlic were not enough, the latest round of price increase in consumer durables would certainly burn a hole in your pocket. Consumer durables comprising washing machines, refrigerators and air-conditioners have just got costlier by 5-10%.     Companies like Godrej Appliances and Samsung India have already raised prices across segments and are, in fact, contemplating another round of price hikes. Rising metal prices, especially steel, have prompted durable makers to take prices northward.     “Metal prices have been on the rise. There’s no way we can absorb the hike in input costs. We have thus passed on input cost hike to consumers,” said George Menezes, chief operating officer, Godrej Appliances, a division of Godrej & Boyce Manufacturing Co. Godrej has raised product prices in the range of 3-5%. A 230-litre Godrej frostfree refrigerator, which was earlier priced at Rs 14,610, will now cost consumers Rs 15,210, while a 300-litre one would cost Rs 25,100, which is higher by Rs 800 compared to the earlier price of Rs 24,300.     Indian steel-makers have raised prices in the range of 4-5% across grades. Besides, even copper and polymer prices have been on the upswing.     Korean consumer durable-maker Samsung, too, has raised prices of its products across the board. While Samsung refrigerators and washing machines would now cost 2-3% more, its air-conditioners will see a 10% mark-up immediately, said the company. “This is an immediate hike but one cannot rule out another round of increases taking considering the rising input costs,” said Ravinder Zutshi, deputy MD Samsung India.     LG Electronics, on the other hand, is still in the process of deciding its course of action on the price front. LG had increased prices of its products during Diwali and once again in December. “We are currently evaluating if there can be a possibility to increase prices further as we have taken two rounds of hikes in the last quarter,” said YV Verma, COO, LG India.     Samsung, too, had hiked prices for its refrigerators by about 3% in the October-November period. However, in September last year, when steel prices went up by 4-5%, some consumer durable-makers like Godrej had restrained from passing on the cost increase to consumers so as not to disturb the festive fervour. For durable-makers, which operate on wafer-thin margins, absorbing any rise in input costs is a difficult proposition.     Steel panels account for around 20% of the material used in a product like refrigerator. Polymers, on the other hand, are used in packaging material. Any rise in the cost of these commodities can put pressure on the margins of durable companies.     On the other hand, price hikes can force consumers to defer their purchases. A severe winter and a couple of instances of rainfall in some parts of the country have already dampened spirits, said industry officials. But these are lean months for the industry. Demand is expected to pick up between February and June. The durable industry is optimistic about a quick turnaround during the peak season. “We believe Godrej Appliances will continue to grow at a CAGR of 29%,” said Menezes. The Rs 35,000-crore consumer durable industry clocked a growth of 13% in 2010.     NO COOLING • Godrej has raised product prices in the range of 3-5% • A 230-litre Godrej frost-free refrigerator, which was earlier priced at Rs 14,610, will now cost consumers Rs 15,210 • Samsung’s air-conditioners will see a 10% mark-up immediately Prices of core commodities rise, industry to feel the pinch Copper At Record High Coal And Steel Prices Move Up M Allirajan TNN     While food inflation remains at high levels, much to the dismay of policymakers, prices of core commodities such as copper, coking coal, crude and steel are also firming up, putting pressure on user industries.     Steelmakers have already passed on the hike to users. Major steel companies have increased prices by Rs 1,500-Rs 2,000 a tonne, a Tamil Nadu-based trader said. Copper hit a record high of $9728 per tonne on the London Metal Exchange (LME) and has zoomed 54% in the past three months. Crude prices are close to their 27-month high.     Spot coking coal prices have increased by 10% in a month as floods in Australia’s Queensland province, billed as the worst in recent history, have hit production and supplies, according to latest reports. Australia accounts for nearly two-thirds of global shipments of coking coal, according to estimates. Spot prices are hovering at around $250 atonne and could go up to $300, alevel last seen in 2008, according to analysts. Coking coal is needed to produce steel from traditional blast furnaces.     Investment in construction and demand for steel used in household appliances remains robust in the country, observers said. As a result, while rising raw material prices are a concern for steelmakers in most other countries, the higher prices work to the advantage of Indian producers, according to a recent Deloitte report.     Though finished steel demand is expected to grow in excess of 10% between 2009 and 2011, capacity is likely to increase at a much slower pace, analysts said. “Naturally, this is having an inflationary effect. Spot prices of iron ore and coking coal have strengthened in 2010 and the long term contract price for 2010 was significantly higher than 2009.”     While copper is likely to hit a small deficit, industry officials and analysts believe that most of the rise is driven by speculative buying from hedge funds. The stock-toconsumption ratio of copper is now lower than the 10-year average and is expected to fall further given the current low stock position, analysts tracking the metal said.     “Copper stocks across the globe are coming down. But it (the stock reduction) is not so severe to result in this kind of price increase,” said Ramesh Nair, chief operating officer, Sterlite Industries, a large producer of the commodity. “The run-up has been sharp as there has been a lot of speculative buying,” said Praveen Singh, research analyst, Sharekhan Commodities.     Due to the sudden increase, there is at times resistance from domestic consumers and as a result there would be a small dip in demand for a couple of months, Nair said. Sterlite follows a dynamic pricing policy and its rates are closely linked with prices on the LME.     The global investment in commodity markets is estimated to be over $300 billion in 2010 compared to $20 billion in 2003. However, with pricing deviating from fundamentals, observers expect metals with strong physical demand to outperform others.
Govt looking at ways to avoid fuel hike: Deora TIMES NEWS NETWORK New Delhi: After quietly persuading the ministerial panel on fuels to abandon diesel price revision plans, oil minister Murli Deora on Wednesday went public saying his ministry is against raising diesel or cooking gas prices and the government is looking at ways to avoid such a move.     “We are trying to see that we do not have to increase prices... I don’t think the EGoM (ministerial panel with the Cabinet’s powers to decide an issue) should meet just now to decide on raising prices. In 2008, when crude shot up to $147/barrel, we insulated the common man and provided Rs 103,000 crore from the budget to subsidize fuel,” Deora told reporters on the sidelines of an ONGC function on ‘social equilibrium’.     Finance minister Pranab Mukherjee, who heads the panel, had initially supported raising diesel prices as state-run oilmarketing firms saw their losses rise as international crude climbed to its highest level since 2008. Planning Commission deputy chairman Montek Singh Ahluwalia still supports the move.     But in the run-up to the Christmas, Deora met PM Manmohan Singh and persuaded Mukherjee to abandon the revision since it would put extra burden on aam aadmi, who was already reeling under the spike in onion prices and high levels of general food priceline. Since diesel and cooking gas together have a weightage of over 5% in the price index, any appreciation in their prices would have stoked inflationary pressures.
Govt lacks tools to curb inflation: PC His Remark May Add To Centre’s Woes As It Scrambles To Check Prices TIMES NEWS NETWORK New Delhi: Union home minister P Chidambaram on Wednesday reflected both the growing worry over inflation as well as the sense of helplessness creeping in the government over its stubbornness which threatens to take the shine off the “growth story” under the UPA government.     Speaking candidly at a function to felicitate C Rangarajan, the chairman of PM’s economic advisory council, Chidambaram acknowledged that the government has not grasped the factors contributing to high prices. Nor does it have all the tools to contain it, said the former finance minister. “I am not sure whether we understand all the factors that contribute to price rise, nor am I sure whether we have at our hand all the tools to control inflation,” he said.     Continuing in the same vein, he further said: “Some say we do, some say we don’t. At least in case of food inflation, I have not heard anyone arguing convincingly that we have all the tools to control food inflation.”     His remarks assume significance because both Congress chief Sonia Gandhi and PM Manmohan Singh have identified high food prices among the biggest challenges facing the government. Soaring food prices have been a political headache for the UPA government as the opposition parties have stepped up their protest against stubbornly high prices. High onion and vegetable prices have pushed food inflation to above 14% in mid-December. A worried government has already put the proposal to raise diesel prices on the backburner despite global crude oil prices touching $92 a barrel. Seen as a no-nonsense minister when he looked after the finance ministry, Chidambaram was handed the reins of the home ministry after then home minister Shivraj Patil came under intense criticism for his failure to act swiftly in the face of a series of bomb attacks.     Significantly, Chidambaram had said that he was reluctant to leave the finance ministry before the responsibility of the MHA was thrust on him in the aftermath of 26/11. In his speech on Wednesday, the home minister said price stability was extremely important particularly in a poor country. “There is no tax worse than inflation,” he said.
Sensex falls for third day on high food inflation Mumbai: The BSE benchmark sensex fell for the third consecutive day on Thursday, and closed down over 116 points, on sustained selling by investors on widespread concerns that spike in food inflation would lead to higher interest rates, making borrowing costly for corporate as well as consumers.     Opening on a positive note, the sensex, shed 116 points, or 0.6%, down at 20,185 as stocks of interest rate related sectors like realty, auto and banking declined. The barometer, which had lost nearly 260 points in the last two sessions, touched the day’s low of 20,107.     The broad-based nifty also lost 32 points, or 0.5% to close at 6,048. It rose to 6,116 and touched a low of 6,022 points during the session. Selling pressure gathered momentum soon after reports of the release of food inflation data and the International Monetary Fund saying that the RBI may have to keep raising policy rates to combat rising inflation.     Soaring onion and other vegetable prices led to a sharp rise in inflation at 18.3% for the week ended December 25, a development that might prompt the Reserve Bank to tighten monetary policy to tame further hike in prices. The RBI had to raise policy rates six times in 2010 to rein in inflationary pressures in the economy, which grew 8.9% in the quarter ended September 30.     The realty sector index suffered the most by losing 2.4% to 2,714 on fears that the RBI may hike interest rate which would impact home sales. The capital goods segment was down by 1.9% to 14,913 followed by the auto sector index. The consumer durable index lost 1.4% to close at 6,312. The banking sector index lost 1.1% to end the day at 12,688 as segment major SBI, the largest lender in the country, dropped to its lowest level in five months by losing 2.7% to Rs 2,625. Among the 30 sensex components, 19 stocks fell while only 11 gained. PTI
Pak bans onion export via land route Chandigarh: Pakistan has imposed a complete ban on export of onions to India via the Wagah-Attari land route, a development which may hit the Centre’s efforts to rein in the bulb’s skyrocketing prices in India. “Pakistan government has banned the supply of onion to India via land route,” customs department (Amritsar) deputy commissioner R K Duggal said on Thursday. He added that Pakistan authorities did not allow any truck to bring in onions.     Local traders explained the ban as a measure to prevent any spiralling hike in bulb prices in Pakistan. The sudden export ban has hit traders of both countries. Indian importers claim that Pakistan did not even allow the supply of 1,500 tonnes of contracted orders of onion. “Almost 1,500 tonnes of onion was yet to be supplied to us but Pakistan government has not allowed local suppliers to fulfil their trade obligation,” said Amritsar’s vegetable trader Anil Mehra. TNN CCI orders probe into ‘cartelisation’ New Delhi: Competition watchdog CCI on Thursday ordered a probe into possible cartelisation by onion traders that might have led to a spike in prices of the essential commodity. “The commission has held many deliberations to study the possibility of cartelisation by onion traders and prima facie there appears to be a case. So, we have taken a suo moto action in carrying out the probe,” an official said.
At 18.3%, food inflation choking home budgets Everything’s Costlier, Not Only Vegetables Surojit Gupta & Namrata Singh TNN New Delhi/Mumbai: There’s fire raging on the price front. On Thursday, government data only confirmed the pain every household has been suffering for the past few months when it stated that food inflation was at a frightening 18.32%.     What’s destroying the household budget is not food prices alone; prices across the board are rising. Oil, property, insurance rates, fridges, washing machines, air-conditioners, soaps, hair colour, insect repellents, air tickets, milk products, eating out—you name it, and its price is up. In the poorer strata of society, many things are off the purchase list, and for many in the middle class, planned purchases have been deferred.     The government, worried about the political cost of this unchecked inflation, has tried several things from imports to crackdown on hoarders, but it hasn’t really worked so far. Now it has asked states to remove all bottlenecks in the supply chain to help bring down food prices. Will that work? No one’s betting on it.     The spiral in food price inflation to 18.32% in the week ending December 25 has been largely driven by prices of onion, vegetables, eggs, meat, fish and milk. The year-on-year increase in onion prices stood at 82.47% and vegetable prices at 58.85%. The increase in food inflation was the highest since July.     Economists said high food prices will persist for some time unless supplies improve. The hike in vegetable prices is, however, puzzling. There is usually a high supply of vegetables in winter and it pushes down prices. But this year the trend is quite the opposite-—food inflation for the week ending December 25 has more than doubled from the November 20 level of 8.6%.
After raids, onion prices ease by 10/kg States Told To Freeze Taxes On Veggies For 3 Months; Pak Asked To Lift Ban On Onions New Delhi: Onion prices on Friday eased by Rs 5-10 a kg in major metros following raids on traders by income tax (I-T) authorities in several states like UP, Tamil Nadu, Punjab, Haryana and J&K. As the I-T officers were swooping down on big onion traders, cabinet secretary K M Chandrasekhar is believed to have told state chief secretaries through a video conference to put the local taxes like octroi and mandi levies on hold for three months on vegetables.     The retail prices of onions declined by Rs 5-10 per kg to Rs 60 in metros across the country, both because of the heat on traders and reports of beginning of fresh arrivals of crop from Gujarat. The Centre finally agreed to compensate agri-cooperatives Nafed and NCCF for losses on selling the vegetable at Rs 35 per kg in Delhi. Finance minister Pranab Mukherjee wrote to chief ministers to crack down on hoarders to ensure smooth supply of essential items from farm gate to retail customers. Food inflation has touched a high level in more than a year at 18.32% for the week ended December 25.     “A larger part of price rise is due to the widening gap between the wholesale and retail prices and the growing demand for these products due to rising income levels,” Mukherjee said. .     I-T officials raided wholesale onion dealers across UP. “The raids were conducted in Lucknow, Varanasi, Kanpur, Ghaziabad, Bareilly, Meerut and other places of the state at main dealers of onion,” a senior I-T official said. Similar operations were carried out at over 10 wholesale merchants across Punjab, J&K, Haryana and Chandigarh in a move to check hoarding.     In Tamil Nadu too, traders came under the IT scanner with the department carrying out state-wide “survey operations”.     “In this operation, 10 big vegetable traders are covered and they are being questioned about the profit earned in their business especially due to increase in prices and investment made by them in the recent times,” S Ravichandran, additional director, I-T (Investigation), Chennai, said.     Meanwhile, India has initiated talks with Pakistan seeking resumption of onion imports through land route of Wagah border where 300 trucks were stopped on Thursday from crossing over to the Indian side. “We have initiated talks and we are hopeful that we will find a solution,” external affairs minister S M Krishna said. In a retaliatory move, Amritsarbased exporters refused to send to Pakistan trucks carrying tomatoes and other vegetables. AGENCIES
Wholesalers in Vashi get surprise visit from I-T dept Vijay Singh TNN Navi Mumbai: Income-tax (I-T) officials conducted a surprise inspection at the onion-potato section of APMC wholesale market in Vashi to check the available stocks and their prices. Surprise raids were conducted in various parts of Maharashtra and in other states on Friday to find out if unfair trade practices, like hoarding, were taking place. A senior I-T official in Mumbai confirmed to TOI that a surprise check was carried out at shops and godowns of various onion traders in APMC. Prices of onions as other vegetables have skyrocketed in recent times, much to the chagrin of the aam admi who is fighting to stay afloat in these inflationary times.     The on-duty I-T officials refused to talk to mediapersons at the APMC market, saying they were not authorized to speak. Various traders of shops in the wings C, E, P and G were forced to down their shutters by the inspection team, which then checked their food stocks and rates.     Director of APMC’s onion-potato market, Ashok Walunj, confirmed the surprise inspections.
NEWS DIGEST Now, fears of ultras sneaking in as sailors Intelligence agencies have issued a fresh terror alert for Mumbai, saying Pakistani terrorists may try to sneak in using fake continuous discharge certificates—which are documents carried by sailors—doctored in Thailand and issued in the name of Liberia. P 2 2 held for woman’s fatal fall into Wadala drain Two officials of the firm handling the Wadala drain project have been arrested for the death of a woman who fell into the pit on Wednesday. Meanwhile, furious with the BMC washing its hands of the incident, the victim’s family has said it will not accept any compensation. P 2 No major eco damage in Lavasa, says panel Naresh Dayal, chief of the government panel looking into the Lavasa project, has said that although there may be minor damages, there is no large-scale destruction of forest cover at the project site and no specific proof to show water supply to Pune will be hit. P 4 I-T raids on markets to check hoarding Raids by income-tax officials across several states, including at the APMC market in Vashi, saw onion prices easing by Rs 5-10/kg in most metros. P 5 & 15 Tiwari firm, govt may move to suspend him Information commissioner Ramanand Tiwari met chief secretary Ratnakar Gaikwad on Friday and told him that he was not involved in the Adarsh scam and would not quit. With Tiwari defiant, the state government may invoke provisions of the RTI Act to suspend him. P 6 PC summons Buddha after Lalgarh carnage With Maoists butchering eight persons in Lalgarh on Friday, home minister P Chidambaram has directed West Bengal chief minister Buddhadeb Bhattacharjee to rush to Delhi to discuss the Naxal menace. P 12 Pulled up by teacher, six girls flee to Pune Six Std IX girls of a Bandra school fled to Pune on Thursday after being scolded by their teacher for misbehaving. P 2 Water pipeline bursts in Worli, supply hit A portion of a 57-inch pipeline carrying water to the Worli reservoir burst on Friday, affecting supply to Prabhadevi, Worli Koliwada and BDD chawls. P 2
Veggie market or share bazaar? Bella Jaisinghani TNN Mumbai: The vegetable market now functions like the stock market, say insiders. Hoarding and speculation have cast a net over the food market. Rather than depend upon actual supplies, prices fluctuate with each day’s announcement, whether it be the arrival or stoppage of Pakistani imports or the government’s ostensible move to crackdown on black marketers. Meanwhile, National Agricultural Cooperative Marketing Federation (Nafed), the government agency that moderates between farmers and consumers, claims that the new crop has started arriving from Maharashtra and Gujarat. “Prices will drop to Rs 15-20 per kg in 15 days,” Nafed chairman Bijender Singh said.     Singh was unaware of the exact shortage caused by crop damage due to unseasonal rain, or the retail price of onions in Mumbai. “The government has offered a subsidy of Rs 30-crore to sell cheap onions in Delhi. We could try to do so in Mumbai too,’’ he said.     Over the past two weeks the onion market has witnessed daily swings of upto Rs 10 per kg. Cooperative stores like Sahakari Bhandar and Apna Bazaar are back to selling the vegetable for Rs 64-70 per kg, after a brief interlude in the range of 50-60 last week.     Interestingly, officials of the state government have been regularly in touch with cooperative stores like Sahakari Bhandar to ascertain the day’s retail price, which is marginally lower than the open market and works to their advantage while citing costs. Innovative citizens cut onions to size Mumbai: Ingenuity is the new tool with which housewives are cooking meals these days. Paring the use of expensive onion and tomato, homemakers across the city are crushing cabbage and boiled potato into their gravies to thicken them. Others are using curd, cornflour or chickpea flour. Defiant ones are experimenting with new ingredients like powdered masala to turn the kitchen into one big picnic.     The hydra-headed monster of inflation is causing ripples even within those households that do not ordinarily count their consumption pattern. As one curbs the use of one expensive item like onion, its close alternative tomato rears to bite. The Rs 60 scourge has hit the middle class with a single kilogram of onion, tomato, lady finger, French bean, cluster bean and cauliflower all costing that much.     Diluting the use of expensive ingredients has become commonplace across the city with homemakers forced to choose cheaper alternatives. “Crushing cabbage or boiled potato into gravies to thicken consistency works for several families, while others blend a teaspoon of cornflour or chickpea flour (besan). Curd is a good option because it lends tang as well as body,” says Sharmeen Ansari from Juhu. “So is cream.”     Bengali cuisine offers a host of alternatives that do not require onion so lecturer Shraboni Sarkar frequently prepares fish curry in mustard gravy or vegetables cooked in a simple watery mix of onion seed, asafoetida and cumin. The Iskcon kitchen at Juhu traditionally uses asafoetida to replace the flavour of onion and garlic.     Spirited individuals who enjoy experimenting with their food have simply turned their indulgence in another direction. Media professional Abhilash Kamath, who likes to cook for his wife and children, has discovered the joys of ready-to-cook powdered masala that is economical and makes a perfect gravy. “The party begins at 9 am on Sunday,” he laughs. “I marinate meat the night before and wake up to the joys of Suhana meat masala which sits perfectly on the palate without much effort. All one has to do is pour enough water to make a light or thick gravy, and sprinkle coriander.”     With onions selling at Rs 38 per kg in the wholesale market, Chetana Thali Restaurant at Fort has devised starters like cabbage or corn pakora, kaju kothimbir wadi and aloo bhajiya, and drafted into its main course dishes like cluster bean in green sauce and drumstick in sesame seeds. “My onion supplier said that selling at our annual contracted rate of Rs 14 per kg was killing him,” says owner Vivek Bhanushali. “I decided to pay him Rs 38, but reduced consumption to cushion the blow for both of us.’’
E D I T PAG E M A I L B OX MY TIMES MY VOICE A justified demand The editorial ‘Tread With Caution’ (January 7) not only overlooks the historic six-decade struggle for a separate state of Telangana, but also the deaths of hundreds of agitators in 1969 and 2009. More than anything else, the unprecedented mobilisation of people demanding a separate state is not even considered. There are multiple factors like history, culture, language, development and desire for self-rule that crystallise in a statehood demand. On the question of Telangana’s backwardness, nine out of 13 identified backward districts in Andhra Pradesh are in the region. Besides, is it logical to compare the Telangana issue with other similar movements? Each struggle has its own history, character and aspirations. The demand for Telanagana is a democratic aspiration. If anything, this people’s struggle is rooted in the failure of successive governments to devolve power and develop the region.     Aditya Deekonda, HYDERABAD Help our farmers The article, ‘Onions, At Whose Cost?’ (December 27) by Madhu Purnima Kishwar highlights the plight of farmers in the country. Undoubtedly, they are the biggest losers in the price rise game. Not only have inputs like seeds, fertilisers and labour required for farming become expensive, farmers are not even able to recover their costs of production. Further, the nexus of middlemen, bureaucrats and politicians has ensured that they don’t even benefit from situations when prices go up. Appearing to favour the middle class over farmers, the government must change course and intervene to improve the condition of farmers.     Raj Kumar, MUMBAI Why play safe? With reference to the Snap Judgment (January 8), the third Test between India and South Africa that ended in a tame draw reflects poorly on the number one Test team in the world. A top-notch team’s position must be on the basis of dominating performance and not a favourable turn of events. Australia during their heydays would always try to win matches and not play safe like other teams. The last Test match of the 2009 Ashes is a fine example of Australia’s cricketing flair and courage.     Anoop H, MYSORE
MACRO WATCH High global food prices add to woes Sidhartha TNN New Delhi: The government’s machinery might be focused on dousing the food inflation fire lit by fruits and vegetables but it also needs to keep a close watch on international food price trends. A report released by Food and Agriculture Organisation of the United Nations last week showed that the Food Price Index—which is a monthly measure of change in prices for a basket of food items including cereals, dairy, meat, oil and sugar—is now past the last peak seen in 2008.     Data from across the globe shows how rising food prices are a global problem and food inflation in China, Vietnam and Brazil is in double-digits. Algeria has had to deal with food riots, Brazil has warned of trade war and France is taking the issue at the level of G20, the club of the world's 20 most advanced economies.     FAO says dairy product prices in international trade are already firm, while world prices of oilseeds, meals and oils could remain firm this season. In case of sugar, the international agency is predicting relatively high and volatile prices in the coming months. But the big worry is wheat where global production is projected to decline by over 5% to 648 million tonnes due to unfavourable weather conditions in a number of major producing countries, especially in the Russian Federation. The closing stock could decline by almost 10% this year due to higher consumption, FAO says.     “Although India is not a major importer of most food items, high global prices may have affected price sentiment in Indian markets,” said Standard Chartered Bank's Samiran Chakraborty. In any case, economists and government officials admit that milk and edible oil are two soft spots on price management though India, at the moment, appears to be cushioned from the impact, thanks to projections of bumper food grain and sugar production and low meat consumption.     Besides, some like Crisil's chief economist D K Joshi warn that in the country, small supply shocks, with onions being the latest example, result in steep rise in local prices. So, a prolonged bout of cold wave in the wheat growing areas or poor rains could just be the trigger for lower production and consequently, higher prices.     In any case, in a note, Chakraborty and his team have warned that the recent upward revision of NREGA wages will push up agricultural prices further, and the proposed food security law will provide a further thrust. “We are concerned that these developments will significantly alter the precarious demand-supply balance for food,” the research note said.     These factors apart, structural reasons such as increase in income levels and the consequent rise in demand for protein-rich food products such as pulses and eggs are exerting pressure on food prices. Also, yields have stagnated while demand has grown rapidly. Though steps to alleviate the immediate supply problems could be taken, a more durable solution in the form of steps to boost productivity, increase storage capacity and irrigation facilities is required, say economists. So, it may make more sense to keep a closer eye on the rain gods than on what the finance minister or the RBI governor do.
‘Centre delayed ban on onion export’ Economists say the government waited too long before banning onion exports in December and this has prolonged the problem. They say that similar supply shocks can’t be ruled out in the future. According to a Standard Chartered Bank research note, a huge increase in vegetable prices contributed to 40% of inflation in food articles for the week ending December 25. “While ground frost and excessive rainfall partly explained the abrupt jump in prices, inefficient supply and distribution mechanisms exacerbated the price increase,” the note said.     A recent review by a committee of secretaries also did not see any relief from high prices in the immediate term.     A steady rise in rural demand in milk and proteins is affecting supplies to the cities and also pushing up the cost of procurement. Late rains in November 2010 hit the kharif crop in some states like Maharashtra and Rajasthan while speculation and hoarding also contributed in keeping cost of foodstuff high.
Hospitals take a dietary step down to beat costs Sumitra Deb Roy TNN Mumbai: High food prices have started burning holes in the pockets of the biggest hospitals of the city. Some have started finding ways to strike a balance between costs and patient care. While many have cut down a-lacarte menus for deluxe rooms, others have brought down the variety served to staffers and doctors.     Most hospitals say exotic vegetables and fruits are out for a while. Only vegetables and protein diets essential for a patient’s recovery will stay. “Some patients recovering in our deluxe rooms ask for special preparations, apart from therapeutic diet. But we may stop offering these for a while, till prices stabilize,” said SK Mohanty, medical director, Jaslok Hospital.     Eileen Canday, chief dietician, Breach Candy Hospital, said hospitals can stop offering exotic food as it does not interfere with patients’ convalescence. “Our hospital has at least 20 diets on any given day. We could look for dietary alternatives so that the nutritional value of food remains the same without any compromise on quality or quantity.”     For a renowned south Mumbai hospital, cutting costs has meant a stop on buying raw materials from branded companies. “For a month, we have been buying rice, dal, flour, oil, etc, from local companies. Many of these products have no quality certification, but the hospital is saving a lot in terms of money,” said a source. “Also, major changes have been made to the food served to staffers.”     About staffers’ food, Mohanty of Jaslok said the hospital has reduced the use of onions in dishes. “We have brought in some changes there and have limited options on the menu, but this is a temporary measure.”     Some hospitals, like PD Hinduja, have also emphasized on curtailing waste to keep costs in check. “Earlier, food was being cooked on the basis of an estimate of the number of staffers and patients. But now we are particular about exact figures. We keep head counts and monitor the number of patients admitted or discharged,” said Sudeep Chogle, assistant manager of the hospital’s food department. Restaurants embark on save-water drive Mumbai: After removing onions from salads to cut costs, the roughly 7,000 restaurants in the city are curtailing the consumption of water. The step is on account of impending summer supply cuts by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC). The cuts at present are because of technical reasons. “Saving water is the need of the hour. We have asked all restaurant, bar and hotel owners to use water minimally. We have asked them to appeal to customers to use water with restraint,” said Sudhakar Shetty, president, Indian Hotel and Restaurant Association (Ahar).     Last year, the BMC had to extend additional supply of water to restaurants to meet demand. Ahar advisor Narayana Alva said restaurant owners will also have to restrict the use of water for washing, for which they must “educate kitchen staff and make them aware of water’s scarcity”. Chittaranjan Tembhekar TNN
Onion prices drop, for good? Slide A Result Of Day-Long Strike By Traders In Nashik Vijay Singh TNN Navi Mumbai: Onion rates in Navi Mumbai came down sharply on Monday, thanks to a strike by traders in Nashik. Prices are likely to go up today, since the strike has been called off, but there is hope that they will fall in the coming days, because a new crop will replenish stocks. In Mumbai, however, the one-day deflation in onion prices was not felt.     On Monday, the wholesale price of onions at the APMC (Agricultural Produce Market Committee) market in Vashi came down by Rs 10 to Rs 25-35 per kg.     Thanks to the traders’ strike, stocks meant for markets in Nashik were diverted to those in Navi Mumbai and Pune, leading to surplus supply.     “There was a record arrival of 170 truckloads of onions at the APMC market. This is almost double of last week’s daily arrival of 80-90 truckloads,” said the market’s director of the onionpotato section, Ashok Walunj. “This was because onion farmers in Nashik diverted their produce.”     The farmers found transportation to Navi Mumbai convenient because it is just 175 km from Nashik.     Despite this bonanza, some retail markets in Mumbai continued to sell onions at Rs 50-80 per kg. In Bandra, onion prices ranged from Rs 70-80 per kg, while in suburbs like Mulund and Borivli they varied between Rs 50 and Rs 60.     A trader in Bandra’s Pali market said: “Even at such high prices, the quality of onion is substandard. We cannot even complain because of the prevailing situation.”     The good news, Walunj said, is that after Makkar Sankranti (January 15), new crop from Nashik and Pune will start flooding the markets, leading to a drop in prices.     “We estimate that by the first week of February, onion prices will come down to Rs 15-20 per kg because farm supplies will increase. The onion crisis should be over then,” said Sanjay Parakh, a wholesale trader at Vashi.     He said that on Tuesday (today), prices will go up again since the APMC market in Nashik will reopen. “But the fluctuation will not be (more than that in recent days) as only a fraction of the Nashik supplies reached Navi Mumbai on Monday. I feel that the government’s strict stand, including surprise surveys by the income tax department of onion markets, has helped keep prices in check.”     Bajirao Shinde, deputy district registrar of cooperative societies, Nashik collectorate, confirmed that the APMC market there will reopen on Tuesday following the traders’ strike being called off.     The traders were reportedly put off by the stand of various governments, like those of UP, Bihar, West Bengal and Madhya Pradesh, to fix the rate of supplies from Maharashtra at Rs 30 per kg. The nationwide income tax raids, too, had unnerved the traders.     Meanwhile, a senior income tax officer told TOI that the department had not found any instances of illegal hoarding of onions at the APMC market in Vashi during a check last week.     “We looked into the records of four onion shops. We found that the shops did not have enough space to hoard onions for days. But there was room to rig prices to an extent by commission agents at the market,” the income tax officer said.
Where’s the price relief, Mr Pawar? Three Weeks Are Up, But Onions Still Cost Rs 60-70/Kg Rajeev Deshpande & Surojit Gupta TNN New Delhi: Onion prices show no sign of climbing down even as the three-week deadline set by Union agriculture minister Sharad Pawar ends. They still hover around Rs 60-70/kg. It’s not onions alone, other vegetables too continue to be very expensive. This is a cause for worry for the government which is already under pressure from soaring inflation.     The unbridled price rise has forced Prime Minister Manmohan Singh to call a meeting on Tuesday to discuss steps to calm prices and bring relief to millions of households.     On December 21, after retail onion prices doubled suddenly, Pawar had said the prices would remain high for three weeks and then show a declining trend. He was betting on the expected arrival of fresh stocks from Maharashtra and Rajasthan. His calculations have obviously not worked.     Measures like asking states to curb hoarding haven’t yielded success, while income tax raids on traders in Nashik and Delhi have backfired. Angry traders have gone on strike even as there is a slowdown in the arrival of onions from Pakistan. This meant that retail rates of onions were ruling at Rs 60-70/kg in Delhi and Mumbai on Monday.     The Centre's compilation of retail prices (invariably, a moderate estimate) show onion in the Delhi market costing around Rs 60/kg. Even at that rate, the jump in prices is 90% from a month ago. Cooking oil and atta (wheat flour) have also become costlier in the last month.     Tuesday's meeting is not specifically on food inflation alone—although at 18.32% for the week ending December 25 it is serious. The PM is expected to review prices, including an assessment of factors driving up prices and remedies. Strike lowers prices for a day in Navi Mumbai T here was a temporary respite for consumers in Navi Mumbai on Monday. Wholesale prices of onion at the APMC market came down sharply to Rs 25-35 a kg as a flash strike by Nashik traders saw stocks flooding Pune and Navi Mumbai. However, Mumbaikars continued to pay between Rs 50 and Rs 80. P 5 
Excess supply on Monday keeps onion rates stable Vijay Singh TNN Navi Mumbai: Dispelling fears that once the strike at the Nashik APMC market got over, onion prices in Navi Mumbai would go up, the rates remained stable at Rs 25 to Rs 40 per kg on Tuesday.     “On Monday, as the market in Nashik was closed, a part of their supply was diverted to Navi Mumbai. So, thanks to the excess amount that came in yesterday, the wholesale prices have remained in the range of Rs 25 to Rs 40 per kg,” said Ashok Walunj, director of the onion-potato section of APMC in Navi Mumbai. “Now that the Nashik APMC market has reopened after the 24-hour strike, only 90 truckloads of onions arrived on Tuesday, compared to 170 the day before.”     Navi Mumbai traders added that onion prices would fall further in a week’s time as fresh farm produce starts coming in after Makkar Sankranti. “By next month, onion rates will normalize to Rs 15-20 per kg,” said trader Sanjay Parakh.
Pawar backs sugar export, Cong says no Surojit Gupta TNN New Delhi: Differences within the ruling government alliance over food management came to the fore on Tuesday with home minister P Chidambaram questioning agriculture minister Sharad Pawar’s pitch for resuming export of sugar.     A meeting convened by Prime Minister Manmohan Singh to discuss measures to calm soaring food prices saw sugar become a key focus area with Pawar plumping for freeing its export, citing an expected bumper crop this year.     As soon as Pawar raised the issue, Chidambaram retorted by saying that there was no need to make fresh commitments when there were unfulfilled export obligations. The home minister had last week raised doubts about the way food inflation was being tackled and wondered if the government had the tools to tackle the menace. Rahul blames coalition politics for govt’s woes R ahul Gandhi has blamed the coalition for the Centre’s troubles . “Things have undergone a sea-change since Indira Gandhi ruled. We’re not running the government alone,” he told students in Amethi. He is in UP to recruit members for the National Students’ Union of India. P 23 Govt has few options to arrest food prices     Sources present at the meeting said Pawar had to back down and the matter was referred to a ministerial panel. They said that the government is worried over rising food inflation, which hit 18.3% in the last week of December, and was changing course in view of a global supply crunch for sugar. It had earlier indicated that sugar exports would resume in February but the recent spike in food prices has led to second thoughts.     There was also discussion on banning futures trading in farm commodities, including sugar, but the PM and his close aides on Tuesday opted for status quo. The recent spike due to rising fruit and vegetable prices, where no futures trading is allowed at present, was a factor that weighed in favour of continuing with futures trading. Potato futures are an exception, but retail prices of potato have actually dipped due to improved supplies.     Faced with a limited set of options to beat back inflation in view of growing demand-supply gaps, the government has fallen back on short-term measures like cracking down on middlemen in vegetable markets to contain price rise. However, it realizes that such crackdowns too can prove counter-productive, as proved by the recent income tax raids on onion traders.     Some immediate measures to reduce the intermediation cost in vegetables are being considered. “It is not just onion prices, sharp increases in vegetable rates are a serious matter. There are many layers of middlemen in the market,” a source said. The cabinet secretary has been asked to draw up a note detailing the action plan which will be circulated to the PM and senior ministers and the deputy chairman of the planning commission. Proposals that will be drawn up would be considered by the cabinet committee on economic affairs (CCEA).     The assessments offered at Tuesday’s meeting show the government is dealing with a limited set of price control options.
Cement import ban to beat Pak onion block? Moves To Tame Inflation To Be Taken Up Today TIMES NEWS NETWORK New Delhi: The commerce department is contemplating a tit-for-tat response to Pakistan’s restriction on onion exports, and may impose a ban on import of cement from across the border. The proposal is part of a package of measures to tame food price inflation that will be discussed by the Union Cabinet on Thursday. The calculation is that such a ban will hurt Pakistan and force it to take steps in favour of India.     Among other things, the Cabinet will discuss a ban on futures trading on such commodities as sugar and potatoes.     A package was expected on Wednesday itself after agriculture minister Sharad Pawar indicated that some measures were in the offing to calm food inflation that shot up to 18.3% in the last week of December. Even the official machinery was waiting for the decisions, but the measures could not be finalized till late evening.     Tensions over management of the food economy have plagued the Congressled UPA government in the last few weeks with prices of fruits and vegetables showing no signs of abating.     On futures ban, market players, however, said that it was unlikely to serve any purpose, except showing the government’s intent of doing something. Some announcements are expected on Thursday, when the latest food inflation numbers will also be released. 7 cr found on Punjab veggie vendors Chandigarh: Amid protests from vegetable merchants over tax raids, the I-T department has unearthed unaccounted money worth over Rs 7 crore from Punjab-based wholesale vegetable merchant.     The money was unearthed by the authorities during a survey conducted last week to check commodity hoarding in the wake of soaring onion prices. “About Rs 7.25 crore has been surrendered by (wholesale) vegetable merchants in Punjab during the survey operations conducted last week,” income-tax (investigation wing), additional director, B K Singh said. The sleuths unearthed a whopping Rs 4.25 crore as undisclosed money from a single vegetable merchant in Amritsar, Rs 1.25 crore from Ludhiana traders and Rs 1.75 crore from Jalandhar traders. AGENCIEs
Onion prices may not drop in time for Makar Sankranti Bella Jaisinghani Mumbai: As the Indian government has attributed the rising onion prices to unseasonal rainfall, it remains that Pakistan, which is exporting the bulb to us, had suffered unprecedented floods in 2010 that damaged 70 per cent of its crop in Sindh.     Friday, January 14, will mark the finish line of yet another deadline that has been promised by the government to reduce onion prices. Makar Sankranti is when the fresh crop is expected to arrive in the market, and it remains to be seen whether a semblance of normalcy can be restored within the next week.     Onion ordinarily retails for Rs 12-15 per kg across India. On Wednesday, consumers were still buying at the exorbitant rate of Rs 60-70 per kg. Apna Bazar in Juhu was selling for Rs 64, with prices having bounced back from Rs 55 on December 24. The average rate across Bandra and Kandivli was Rs 60-65.     Saying the new crop had already begun arriving from Maharashtra and Gujarat, NAFED chairman Bijender Singh told TOI last Friday that prices would stabilize after January 14. However, on Wednesday, finance minister Pranab Mukherjee requested “a few months in the hope that the government would be able to ameliorate the situation’’.
Edible oil, spices cause heartburn Bella Jaisinghani Mumbai: Onion and vegetable prices may be the focus of attention, but for weeks, the cost of common spices and cooking oil have been rising steadily. On Tuesday the price of a one-litre pouch of branded sunflower oil was selling for Rs 125 over Rs 110 last week. “Until then, it was the one-litre reusable bottle that sold for that rate. Those who preferred pouches would buy for Rs 110,” says an Andheri retailer. “Now the bottle comes for Rs 135. Edible oil has becoming costlier by Rs 10-15.”     Two leading brands of groundnut oil have risen to Rs 80 per litre, up from Rs 65 two months ago, says Bombay Central retailer Premji Padamshi. At Colaba, storeowner Durgesh Chowdhury has a steady clientele of middle-class Bengalis who purchase up to five litres of mustard oil every month. “Loose mustard oil that cost Rs 66 per litre at Diwali is selling for Rs 78,” he says. Even branded coconut oil is selling for Rs 116 per litre, ten rupees more than last month.     The Apna Bazar store in Andheri guards its assets with care. Small pouches of cardamom, weighing 20 gm each, find pride of place near the cashier’s counter rather than the crowded aisles of the supermarket. At Rs 23 per 10 gm, its cost works out to Rs 2,300 per kg, clearly one of the costliest spices and condiments selling in the country at this time.     Causing parallel discomfort is the spiral in prices of condiments and spices, particularly those that are traded on the commodities exchange. “Cardamom is only good for windowshopping with an average rate of Rs 2,300 per kg,” says Sanket Khamkar of G W Khamkar store in Lalbaug. “Turmeric has risen from Rs 140 per kg a year ago to Rs 340 per kg.”     Raising a flag over red chilli, retailers said that branded powder of the ‘kashmiri’ and ‘bedgi’ variety is selling for Rs 200-210 per kg, up from Rs 100-110 two months ago.     Traders and exporters blame the commodity exchange as the “main culprit” for rising prices of turmeric, cardamom as well as red chilli. Trading food items on the exchange leads to artificial price rise by encouraging speculation, they say. “The cartel puts money into purchases at the beginning of the season and determine prices for the next few months,” says another trader. “They have already declared that a crop shortage of red chilli will occur this year despite the fact that the arrivals are only expected end-February.”     Exporter Kirandip Singh Swani said that the commodity that was trading for Rs 45 on the wholesale market three months ago stood at Rs 85 on Wednesday. “There may be a marginal shortfall of 5-15% in production later this year but there is no logic in prices having doubled in such a short span of time," he says. Coriander may become the next casualty to speculation for it was trading at Rs 47 on the exchange Wednesday, up from Rs 20 two months ago. Desperate housewives grow onions in Nerul Vijay Singh TNN     Agroup of housewives in Nerul have found a way to combat the rising onion prices, by growing the bulb themselves. Most families do not have the luxury of space, but the housewives live in the SBI Housing Colony, which accommodates over 1,000 families in 87 blocks. They have adopted a part of the complex’s garden for their farming activities.     Annapurna Valika, president of the Anushree Mahila Mandal, the local women’s group said the idea was made at the spur of the moment. “Last month, some members of our mahila mandal were discussing onion prices over tea. And then we realized there was nothing stopping us from growing onions ourselves,” she said.     It did not take long for the win to actualize their idea. Home maker Sanjivani Bangar and vice president of the women’s group said they were forced to use a few sets of small new onions and even rotten onions because of the bad crop in the market. The women eschewed branded fertilizers and made their own manure from organic kitchen waste to enrich the soil.     “The results were good; we harvested our first crop in 30 days,” said Valika. The women could have given the crop another 15 days to mature, said professional farmers. But the Nerul housewives said they were satisfied with the harvest. The agricultural advisor was homemaker Uma Ghate who had experience and knowledge on onion farming. About six to seven homemakers at the colonly do most of the farm work. “Our yield was around 6 kg the first time round. We are expecting at least 8 kg in the second cycle,’’ said Valika, adding that a few women can’t stop themselves from trotting down to the farm to dig up an onion or two for their dinner.     At the wholesale market, onions sold for Rs 25-35/kg. They retailed at Rs 60-70/kg. But for some women, the price no longer matters .
Industrial output in Nov slows to 18-mth low TIMES NEWS NETWORK New Delhi: The country’s industrial output in November slowed to an 18-month low of 2.7%. A sluggish 2.3% expansion in the manufacturing sector was mainly responsible for the slump.     The latest industrial data heaped more pressure on the government already battling high food prices, as worries about a possible industrial slowdown gathered pace and posed a dilemma for the Reserve Bank of India which is widely expected to raise interest rates to calm rising inflation.     Industrial production data has displayed volatility in recent months but policymakers said the November data needed to be examined in detail before drawing any conclusion. Prices of cooking oil, spices soar in city T he common man is being hit from all sides. After onions and vegetables, prices of edible oils have gone up by as much as Rs 15 a litre in Mumbai in the last two months. Spices like red chilli, turmeric , cardamom now cost a packet. P 2 IIP slump does not alarm economists     If IIP (index of industrial production) goes down and inflation goes up, it will have an adverse impact but I am not coming to any premature conclusion,” finance minister Pranab Mukherjee told reporters. “We will have to look into the corrective measures so that IIP numbers revive in the coming months.”     Planning Commission deputy chairman Montek Singh Ahluwalia, however, sought to play down concerns saying the economy was on track to grow 8.5% during 2010-11 and the low IIP numbers in November did not pose any concern.     “I am not concerned about the low November number. There is month-to-month volatility. The cumulative industrial growth number is about 9.5%. That is very reasonable considering the overall GDP growth target we have,” Ahluwalia said. Economists said they were not alarmed by the drastic slowdown in the November IIP number and attributed the moderation in manufacturing activity to rising input costs and possible impact of interest rate tightening. “Am I alarmed? No, not terribly alarmed but certainly there is some concern,” Shubhada Rao, chief economist at Yes Bank said.     But she said soft patches in the data such as the decline in consumer goods and consumer non-durables need to be examined as other data show a different trend.     Economists said despite the dramatic slowdown in November IIP, the RBI will raise interest rates by at least 25 basis points as inflation is a bigger concern than growth.     State Bank of India chairman O P Bhatt expects the central bank to raise key interest rates by 25 basis points. Price pressures have risen in recent months and food price inflation shot up to 18.32% in the week to December 25 on the back of soaring onion, vegetable and fruit prices. RBI has raised interest rates six times in 2010 to tame inflation. Electricity and mining sectors remained buoyant in November rising 4.6% and 6% respectively from as year-ago. The capital good sector, a key gauge of industrial activity, remained buoyant growing 12.6% while consumer goods declined 3.1% in November and consumer non-durables fell 6% compared to the same year-ago period.     Barclays Capital said the decline in the consumer durables output in November could be on the back of a reduction in festival-related buying, smaller number of working days and ongoing tightening of interest rates.     But it expects industrial production data to remain soft in the months ahead. “On balance, while overall activity levels are expected to remain steady, we expect headline IIP growth numbers to remain soft with a high level of volatility,” Barclays Capital said in a research note.
CASH CRUNCH Govt to control exports, imports to check prices TIMES NEWS NETWORK New Delhi: The UPA government, battling criticism over spiraling food prices and mismanagement, on Thursday announced a slew of measures aimed at checking rising prices but analysts said the overall impact of the steps would be visible only in the long term.     Alarmed by the sudden spike in vegetable prices that has kept food inflation in the 17-18% range, Prime Minister Manmohan Singh met his top ministers and advisers to thrash out a strategy to calm prices. The government said it will review import and export of all essential commodities and impose controls on exports and ease restrictions on imports, including cutting tariffs where necessary to improve domestic supplies.     The government said it will take strict action against hoarders and black marketers manipulating prices to ensure that products reach the markets in a timely manner to moderate price. Cartelization by large traders will be strictly dealt with and states will be urged to ensure that effective action is taken under the Essential Commodities Act, 1955, and the Competition Act, 2002.     Public sector undertakings will intensify purchases of essential commodities particularly edible oils and pulses for distribution through their retail network and also through the Public Distribution System. Exports of edible oils, pulses and non-basmati rice will remain banned.     Economists said the measures would mean larger outlay for improving agriculture infrastructure in the Union budget to be unveiled on February 28. “The impact of these measures will be visible in the medium and long term. We expect to see larger outlays for agriculture in the budget,” Indranil Pan, chief economist at Kotak Mahindra Bank, said.     A government statement said NAFED and NCCF will sell onions at Rs 35 per kg from their retail outlets and budgetary support would be provided for this. The government said the arrival of onions from Pakistan would also help.     An inter-ministerial panel has been set up under the Chief Economic Adviser to review the overall inflation situation. The panel will review trends, read warning signals and recommend action on fiscal, monetary, production, marketing and distribution and infrastructure fronts to prevent any price shock. The committee of secretaries will review the price situation.
Food inflation eases but pressure remains January Drop May Provide Some Relief To Govt RBI Likely To Raise Rates By 25 BPS TIMES NEWS NETWORK New Delhi: The latest food inflation numbers, which showed a marginal decline to 16.9% in the week to January 1, is set to provide some relief to the government which has been battling criticism of mismanagement of the food economy.     Though it remains at elevated levels, even when compared with the previous week’s 18.3%, policymakers can draw comfort from the fact that this is the first time in six weeks that food inflation has eased.     Vegetable prices rose 3.84% week-on-week and were up 71% year-on-year. Onion prices were up 71% year-on-year while fruit rose 17.71% and eggs, meat and fish rose 16.70% year-on-year.     The Congress-led UPA government, which has been under pressure over high food prices, on Thursday announced some short- and long-term measures to combat soaring prices. “We have analysed the situation. We have also indicated that there should not be any panic,” finance minister Pranab Mukherjee told reporters. The dip in food inflation should bring some relief to the government but economists said the Reserve Bank of India is likely to raise interest rates by 25 basis points in its monetary policy review on January 25.     “The index has gone up. Vegetable prices are likely to come down as supplies improve but there are structural issues. Long-term investment is needed to improve supply chains. Inflation is still high and we see the RBI raising rates by 25 basis points,” A Prasanna, head of research at ICICI Securities, said. The index for food articles group rose by 0.2% to 192.9 from 192.5 for the previous week due to higher prices of jowar and coffee (4%), fruits and vegetables and fish marine (2% each) and masur, arhar, bajra, moong, condiments and spices and ragi (1% each). Food accounts for 14.34% of the wholesale price index. The widely watched wholesale price index rose 7.48% in November, easing from October’s 8.58%.     The RBI has consistently flagged inflation as a concern as global commodity and crude oil prices accelerate. Economists say inflation is a bigger worry for RBI than growth. The central bank has raised interest rates six times in 2010 and is likely to hike rates again on January 25.
J U G U L A R V E I N IPL slavery Cricket has become an obsession with those who love the game and those who don’t Jug Suraiya In the mid-19th century Abraham Lincoln fought a civil war in America to free the slaves. In the 21st century, over 60 years after it gained independence, India continues to be enslaved. To cricket, particularly to IPL cricket. This was forcibly brought home by the IPL auctions. How much for this prize specimen on the block! Ladies and gemmelmen, look at those arms, look at those legs! Look at that batting average, those runs, the wickets he’s taken! The ads he’s appeared in! The endorsements he’s made, for everything, from cars to colas, ganjis to gutka! What am i bid for this prime hunk of cricketing flesh, and bone and muscle? 3 crore? 3.15 crore? 3.38 crore? 4.05, from that lady in the rhinestone sunglasses and chandelier earrings in the back? 6 crore, from the gemmelmen in the day-glo safari suit? Thank you, sir! And it’s going, Going, GONE for 6 Big Ones!     Just like the slave auctions they used to have in the bad old days before slavery got abolished. Except in the case of IPL the slaves are not the ones who are being bid for but the ones who are doing the bidding, the megabuck socialites and tycoons, and the zillion other fans across the country glued to their TV sets to catch the action.     There was a time, long, long ago, when cricket was a leisurely game played with a bat and a ball and three wickets on something called a village green on a small, wet island called England. Today in India, bats, balls and wickets are still involved in cricket, but only peripherally so. In IPL cricket (is there any other form of the game?), while bats, balls and all that old paraphernalia are still around somewhere the focus has shifted to the razzmatazz around the sport, starting with the auctions: the prime-time TV slots, the ad revenues to be made at a squillion . a minute, the cheerleaders, the backdoor deals involving sweat equity, the scams, the accusations of matchfixing, you name it and IPL’s got it, in 3D and Surroundsound. Village green? England? Who dat?     If IPL has enslaved us – and there’s no if about it, it has – there have never been slaves happier in their bondage. Onion prices? Inflation? Total logjam in Parliament? Pakistani terror? Saffron terror? Chinese incursions into Ladakh? We swat them away like the pesky machchars that they are. Don’t worry, be happy, IPL’s here.     But what about that minuscule – and never has cule been more minus – minority who out of some strange and as yet undiagnosed pathological condition doesn’t much care for cricket, not even IPL cricket, and can’t tell a Rajasthan Rider from a Royal Knight? What about that wretched bunch of IPL-less nohopers, to which i confess i belong? Are unfortunates like me free of the magical spell of enchantment that IPL casts over the nation? Not really. In fact not at all.     The other evening i was at a social get-together, a dinner party. Everyone was busy talking about the IPL auctions, who’d bid how much for whom, and conversely who hadn’t bid for whom, and how come not. While everyone was busy talking cricket, i was also busy. Busy polishing off the pre-dinner snacks, plus more than my fair share of the buffet dinner.     It’s not just dinner tables to which IPL obsession enables non-IPLwallas like me easy access. Movie halls, restaurants, markets, malls, shops, my daily evening walk are all pleasantly and conveniently uncrowded as the IPL epidemic sweeps the country. Everyone’s too preoccupied with cricket to go anywhere and do anything else, which leaves the field free for me.     I’m so glad i’m not enslaved like everyone else by IPL. Or aren’t i? By becoming so dependent on others’ slavery to cricket, haven’t i become a slave to their enslavement? A slave of a slave? Boy, how slavish can one get. Yikes.     jug.suraiya@timesgroup.com     http://blogs.timesofindia.indiatimes.com/jugglebandhi/ 
Signs Of Overheating How to curb inflation and put the ‘O’ word out of circulation Abheek Barua     Policy makers have reason to dislike the word ‘overheating’. It suggests that an economy has crossed an upper bound of sustainable growth. Any attempt to continue to grow at that rate or rev up further would put prices on the boil. If the current episode of high inflation is indeed characterised as overheating, it would suggest prices would stabilise only if economic growth were to slow down. That would question the government’s claims that GDP growth is likely to accelerate further and climb on a sustained double-digit path. The question is: should the ‘O’ word enter the current discourse on inflation or would that be too alarmist?     There are a number of arguments against the ‘overheating’ view. For one, the received wisdom about India is that the potential party poopers are shortage of infrastructure and skilled labour. Thus the initial symptoms of rising economic temperature should be found in growing power outages, clogged ports and rising white collar wages, not in high food prices. This is related to another common belief that agricultural price variations typically reflect ‘temporary’ supply side problems that given a bit of patience, adequate rainfall and a few raids on hoarders would get sorted.     Finally, the litmus test of ‘overheating’ is whether inflation is broad-based or not. The claim is that since the bulk of current inflation is still driven by food, it fails this litmus test. This view has underpinned the government’s anti-inflation strategy over the past year. The policy-corollary of this has been to treat rise in food prices as a series of somewhat independent episodes of temporary supplyshortages in different items.     This strategy has clearly not worked. Food inflation has averaged 16% over the past year and, with the exception of November, stubbornly remained in double digits. A reasonably bountiful monsoon and a relatively good summer crop have failed to provide the relief promised. This suggests two things. First, the government needs to beef up its supply management apparatus. The second is more ominous. Rise in food prices could turn out to be a somewhat unexpected symptom of ‘overheating’.     I would argue the following. The very persistence should tell us there’s more to it than one-off supply failure. Food prices are clearly getting support from a secular rise in demand. If, instead of treating ‘food’ as a black-box, one looks at the constituents of the food basket in the price-index, the price buildup appears to be in non-cereal categories – things like milk, fish, poultry and vegetables.     This has to be interpreted carefully. First, there is evidence to show a sustained shift in dietary preference away from cereals to these products for the last few years. Second, the ability of households, especially rural households, to buy these food items appears to have increased as higher procurement prices and better penetration of NREGA have translated into higher incomes. While demand for these commodities has increased, the supply side has remained crippled by a combination of post-harvest distribution infrastructure (an abysmal cold chain network, for instance, that results in roughly 30% wastage in post-production) and archaic marketing laws. The result has been a steady upward trend in prices of food products.     This trend, not the occasional spikes around this trend, is the key concern. How can we arrest it? This involves a complete overhaul of the supply and marketing infrastructure and is unlikely to happen overnight. Thus we must accept the fact if demand for food were to continue at the current rate it would put further pressure on an already overstretched food sector.     The problem is that food prices cannot be locked away in a strong-box – they are bound to transmit to other segments of the economy. The most predictable impact is likely to be on wages. Workers are likely to renegotiate wages up if food prices erode their budget; there is anecdotal evidence to suggest this is happening. If an employer is forced to pay higher wages, he is likely to charge higher prices for the products he sells. Thus there is a cascading effect of food inflation that pulls up prices across the board. This would be overheating in the more classical sense and is a risk that intensifies each passing day.     The challenge is not just to dampen food prices but also to prevent these second-round ‘pass-through’ effects. This is possible only if demand conditions soften and curtail overall pricing power of producers – that is, if growth slows down considerably from current levels. This is the RBI’s remit – it can try to harness growth by pushing up interest rates forcing consumers and firms to borrow and spend less. Higher interest rates are unlikely to bring onion prices down. They can however stymie the complex chain of linkages through which higher onion prices could translate into higher prices for cars.     What’s the bottom-line then? For a start, the government has to reconcile to a lower mediumterm growth rate than the 9%- plus it currently seems to target. It also has to accept the fact that there is a serious structural imbalance in the food economy and have a long-term strategy in place instead of seeking quick fixes. RBI’s role and remit will have to be understood carefully. The government needs to anticipate short-term supply problems a whole lot better to prevent short-term price spikes. Finally, it must use its procurement and distribution muscle to ensure the price of cereals is at least kept in check.     The writer is chief economist, HDFC Bank. Views expressed are personal.
World Bank prez backs retail reforms, opposes exports ban Surojit Gupta & Vikas Singh TNN New Delhi: Further opening up of India’s retail market would help improve productivity, lead to lower prices and create more jobs, World Bank president Robert Zoellick said on Friday.     He also said banning exports of commodities to calm prices was not a sound economic policy as it sends a wrong signal to farmers at home and creates uncertainty in the international markets which then adds to price volatility. The government has taken several steps, including banning onion exports as food inflation shot up to 18.32% in the last week of December. It also said export of edible oils, non-basmati rice and pulses would remain banned.     Zoellick, who is in India on a four-day visit, also said banning futures trading in commodities would not solve the problem of high prices as appropriately constructed futures markets can serve as an important tool for risk management.     “If your prices of food are going up it probably makes less sense to have import barriers or quotas or other things,” Zoellick told TOI in an interview in the bank’s New Delhi office. “As for the retail market, over time it would provide better services, more jobs, lower prices, increased productivity. And so I think trying to continue to open up the economy would be in India’s long-term benefit.”     Government regulations only allow foreign retailers in the wholesale segment and prohibit FDI in multibrand retail. There is stiff opposition from small shop owners and kirana stores and political parties to further opening up the retail sector to foreign players. Global retail giants such as Wal-Mart, Carrefour and Metro have set up wholesale outlets in India in their effort to capture a slice of the growing retail market.     Zoellick urged for policy protection for the urban poor to shield them from high inflation. He said among the most vulnerable were pregnant mothers and children up to two years of age who need nutrition. Costly food items pushed the wholesale price inflation to 8.43% in December, up from the previous month’s 7.48%.     The World Bank president said the current high food inflation in India and other developing countries was partly a result of the change in dietary patterns due to increase in incomes. He said to ease the supply bottlenecks it was important to expand agricultural productivity and the bank was willing to help on this issue.     Any stringent curbs on the microfinance sector in India would be counterproductive, he said, adding that there was need for consumer awareness, greater supervision and financial literacy.     “I think it will be a terrible mistake to throw the baby out with the bath water and what would happen?....the money lenders would charge as lot more than microfinance institutions,” Zoellick said. He added he was encouraged by the themes on which the Reserve Bank of India panel on microfinance was working. The RBI panel is expected to unveil guidelines on the sector soon.
Til gul laddoos, kites mark Sankranti fun Bella Jaisinghani TNN Mumbai: Few harvest festivals in recent times have been awaited as eagerly as Saturday’s Makar Sankranti, which brings with it the promise of the new onion crop. The government has promised that prices would ease once the new arrivals began coming in from Maharashtra and Gujarat around this time.     Several prayers would have gone up as the sun made the transit into the Tropic of Capricorn shortly after midnight Friday. A rare Hindu festival that falls on the same day of the Gregorian calendar each year, Makar Sankranti is also unique because this is one time wearing black is considered auspicious. “Maharashtrian women wear the Chandrakala sari, which is black and embellished with white ‘khari’ work,” saysRaju Luthria who owns Swapnari sari shop in Dadar.     Luthria makes sure to watch a grand Sankranticelebration on south Indian television each year. “Vast gatherings of male devotees of Lord Ayyappa arrive at Sabarimala from all parts of the country for a glimpse of the sacred ‘makar jyot’. This is the grand culmination of a stringent 40-day fast where the faithful wear only black, go barefoot and do not eat anything that has been cooked by women,” he says.     In north India, Gujarat and Maharashtra, a fierce battle of kites rages in the sky this day, as if in tribute to the start of Uttarayan.     Arguably the largest religious gathering in the world converges at the site of the Kumbh Mela with devotees taking a holy dip in the waters of Prayag, Haridwar, Ujjain and Nashik. This year the location of the ‘magh mela’ is Prayag, Allahabad.     As South India celebrates Pongal, Maharashtrian women attend haldikumkum ceremonies and distribute til gul laddoos prepared by melting roasted sesame seeds, jaggery, coconut and groundnut. This year, housewives find themselves constrained by the cost of each raw material.
Chinese supply wipes onion tears Wholesale Prices In Steady Decline Vijay Singh TNN Navi Mumbai: People out to shop for vegetables in Vashi were pleasantly taken by surprise on Friday. Vendor after vendor had mounds of unusually big onions, weighing 250-300 gm a piece, the odd bulb even weighing half a kg. Also, prices were down.     “A shipping container with 11 tonnes of onions arrived from China at the Nhava Sheva port today (Friday),” said Ashok Valunj, the director of the onion-potato section at the APMC (Agricultural Produce Market Committee) market, Vashi.     “But this was the last of imported stocks. We have stopped importing from Pakistan, as fresh farm supplies from Pune and Nashik will start flooding the markets.” (Earlier in the month, over 200 tonnes of onions had arrived from Pakistan.)     The APMC market received 110 truckloads of the Chinese onions, all high-grade, which pushed prices down to Rs 20-32 per kg, the upper range being for the imported bulbs. Valunj said wholesale prices are steadily on the decline due to ample supplies at markets all over the state.     Onion trader Sanjay Parakh said the Chinese onions are very big and heavy compared to normal-grade Indian or Pakistani onions, which weigh no more than 150 gm a piece. Some Chinese bulbs are more than double the size of the biggest of the domestic varieties.     The onion crisis in the country had peaked during December and early January because of a shortage in supply caused by bad climate that had damaged the Indian crop.     To tide over the crisis, the central government requested mainly Pakistan and China for imports.     From December 21 to January 5, India received around 50 truckloads of onions every day from Pakistan by road through the Attari-Wagah check post.     The amount received via sea from the Karachi port has added up to 200 tonnes. These factors, including the recent countrywide surprise raids of onion godowns by Income Tax officials in a government crackdown on hoarding, helped bring down prices.     While the maximum wholesale rates of onions was touching Rs 55 per kg in the first week of January, now the upper limit at the Vashi APMC is down to Rs 32 per kg.
Giant Chinese onions fetch 32/kg in Vashi Navi Mumbai: A batch of Chinese onions arrived at the APMC wholesale market in Vashi on Friday.     Traders say these are double the size of Indian onions and weigh 250-300 gm per piece. An Indian onion weighs 100-150 gm. Prices fell to Rs 20-32 per kg after 110 truckloads of the commodity arrived in Vashi. The Chinese onions cost Rs 32 per kg.     “A container with 11 tonnes of imported onions from China arrived today from Nhava Sheva. We won’t get any more imports from Pakistan or China now, as fresh farm supplies from Pune and Nashik will now start flooding markets,’’ said Ashok Valunj, director, APMC onion-potato section. He said wholesale rates had fallen across the state. TNN
EXCEPTION HERE
SUNDAY MAILBOX Sabari tragedy avoidable     The stampede at Sabarimala that claimed over a hundred lives besides injuring several others is the latest in a long list of fatalities caused at festivals and religious events around the world. The tragedy emphasizes the critical need to consider the safety of piligrims. Although it would be a Herculean task to control the sea of humanity around holy shrines and festivals, it would not be a bad idea to draw up a list of priorities in case of an emergency. Accident prevention, good infrastructure and sound medical facilities are of paramount importance in considering the safety of piligrims. I hope authorities give this a serious thought to prevent tragedies of this nature from striking again.     N J Ravi Chander, via email Seeing yellow     It is a shame that the BMC, with the largest revenue and budget in the country, cannot provide clean and safe drinking water to Mumbai citizens. At the same time, permission and NOCs to construct more and more skyscrapers are doled out to builders without giving a second thought to the sagging infrastructure, which is crumbling daily due to age.     Sudhakar Shenoy, Mumbai Inflation woes     The common onion has brought tears to the eyes of the masses. Prices of all essentials are spiralling out of control and out of reach of ordinary people. From the government’s pathetic failure to check growing corruption and inefficiency in tackling runaway prices of almost all essentials, the general picture that comes across is that of confusion and breakdown of administrative rule. Urgent corrective measures need to be taken.     Gregory Fernandes, Mumbai Gender sites issue     The report ‘Ban sex prediction sites, Maharashtra urges Centre’ (Jan 16) clearly shows the sloppy and shoddy way in which the government and bureaucracy work and perceive things. The root cause of female foeticide is not at all addressed. That is the action point. Society, by and large, perceives a girl child as a liability and the attitudes towards marriage expenses and the subsequent treatment given to a girl substantiate the fact. The declining gender ratio is a result of this hard fact. Tackle this problem, bring in gender equality in all aspects and everything will be taken care of.     Vijaya Raghavan, Mumbai Pakistan is a global threat     The murder of liberal Pakistani politician Salman Taseer by his own bodyguard is definitely a cause for worry, not just for Pakistan, but all of humanity ("Pakistan’s Titanic", Intersections, Jan 9). India is especially at risk as Taseer’s assassin was from a security force that is responsible for guarding Pakistan’s nuclear weapons. Fundamentalists and hardliners appear to be taking control of Pakistan and this is the Damocles sword hanging over the collective head of the international community. The sooner these concerns are addressed, the better for the world.     Madhu Agrawal, Delhi
Agri min can’t be blamed for price rise, says Pawar Pune: Absolving his ministry of the responsibility for price rise, Union agriculture minister Sharad Pawar on Satuday said policies to control inflation are discussed and formulated at the “highest level” involving participation of the PM and the finance minister.     “It is a collective decision-making process in which inflation control measures are discussed at the highest level, including the PM, Pranab Mukherjee and the economic adviser to the PM. We gather statewise information for guidelines to form a policy,” Pawar told reporters at Manchar, about 100 km from here. Responding to a suggestion that the Congress was targeting the NCP on this issue, the minister said, “It is not right to blame agriculture ministry for the price rise.”     “The responsibility of agriculture ministry is to see that adequate production of wheat, rice, sugar and oilseeds is taking place in the country. Now, we have stocks for the next two to three years. In India, wheat, rice and sugar are cheaper, compared to other countries,” the NCP chief said.     Pawar said the ban on onion exports would be reviewed when the situation warrants it. On milk prices, he said the hike was due to the gap between demand and supply.     He said the government was considering offering incentives for development of dairy sector. AGENCIES
EXCEPTION HERE
Kanda is back in bhajia, poha Chittaranjan Tembhekar TNN Mumbai: Onions are back on hotel menus. Over 7,000 restaurants and vada pav stallsin the city have decided to introduce kanda poha and kanda bhajia.Onionshave alsostarted replacing cabbage and radish in vegetable salads.     Sudhakar Shetty, president of Ahar, an association of Indian hotels and restaurants, having over 7,000 restaurants and bars as its members across Mumbai, said, “Now the rates of onions have gone down to Rs 30 per kg (against Rs 70-80 a kg 20 days ago) andenoughstockis available in the market. Soon, all restaurants and vada pav stalls will have onion-based items on their menu.”     Rajendra Raskar, a wholesale onion trader at the APMC (AgricultureProduceMarketing Committee) market in Vashi, said the prices would drop further. “The rates in the wholesale market are around Rs 16 to Rs 18 per kg. In the retail market, onion costs about Rs 25-30 a kg. By February 15, the price will drop to Rs 12-15 per kg.” Now, about 160 trucks laden with onions are coming to the market, as against only 60 till a few weeks ago.     Unseasonal showers this winter destroyed the onion crop across the state. The rates of garlic have also dropped, traders said.
THE SPECTATOR A Dream Run for good Samaritans Sukhada Tatke | TNN Mumbai: It literally was a Dream Run for the 22,000 people who took part in the shortest version of the Mumbai Marathon.They had come in colourful outfits, with banners supporting the gamut of social and environmental causes. They started trickling in as early as 7.30 am, almost two hours before starting time. By 9.10 am, when the run was flagged off, their zeal and enthusiasm were infectious.     Teams from around 180 NGOs took part in the 6-km run. From animal rights to saving forests to human rights, not a cause was unsupported. In directing their wrath against the government, the participants did not shy away from highlighting corruption scandals, price rise, unemployment... A runner came wearing a garland of onions. He said it was for the most deserving participant.     The mood was one of goodwill and cooperation throughout the Dream Run route—DN Road, Churchgate,Marine Drive and back.     Santosh Solanke, running for Mumbai Mobile Creche, which works for the uplift of construction workers’ children, was dressed as Vasudeva. His explanation: “The times are so bad that only an avatar of God can bail us out.”     Nadeem Khan,representing Eureka Forbes, said: “Human beings by leading present day lifestyles are adding to the carbon footprint. But there are several things one can do in an eco-friendly way that will save our environment from ruin.”     Concern for the environment was clearly the pet cause. ‘Technology owes ecology an apology’, read a banner; ‘Reduce carbon footprints’, screamed another. ‘Relate to the food on your plate. Go vegan’, read a PETA poster.
Fly in onion soup Have no fear, group of ministers is here Raghu Krishnan     All of us who were promised a Happy New Year by those who matter need not think we have been shortchanged. Didn't the prime minister of the world's most populous democracy promise in his New Year message to the nation “to dispel the air of despondency and cynicism”? Hasn't the economist-turned-FM-turned-PM assured us that “we will redouble our efforts to deal effectively and credibly with the challenges of inflation, cleansing our governing processes, national security and making our delivery-system work for the aam aadmi”? So what if the media tells those of us who haven't yet meandered our way to the nearest mandi that the threeweek deadline India's agriculture minister Sharad Pawar had set for onion prices to come down got over recently, but the retail rate is still ruling at between Rs 60 and Rs 70 a kg, a 90% hike from the level prevailing a month ago?     The UPA government does not rest content with offering the aam aadmi the freebie of cleansing his eyes with natural tears while weeping over a 16.91% rise in food inflation for the week ended January 1, after zooming to 18.32% in December. The promised redoubling of efforts to deal with inflation was evident in the fact that another Group of Ministers (GoM) at the highest level (the PM, the FM, the HM and the deputy chairman of the Planning Commission) met at 7, Race Course Road, at 11 a.m. on January 11, 2011 (and what could be more numerologically propitious than a morning meeting at 11 on 11-1-11?) to discuss steps to calm prices and bring relief to millions of households. If 11 a.m. on 11-1-11 was numerologically a great time for babies to be born, think of the ideas conceived through a process of cross-fertilisation of India's most informed and powerful minds, all focussed on the need to cut onion prices to size! With the PM being a former FM, the FM a former EAM and a former DM (external affairs minister and defence minister), and the HM being a former FM, there must have been enough lateral and     cumulative experience in this GoM to peel inflation off the onion and put any spurt in cooking oil and atta prices back on sim on each stove in every home.     It's only the nasty, cynical types – those who shed not just onion-prompted or opposition-style but crocodile tears – who would talk of meetings being a substitute for decision-making or equate a heavyweight GoM on inflation with King Canute asking the waves of the sea to stop. The original Mrs Gandhi once called corruption a universal phenomenon. So is inflation. And so is cricket. So why pull up our economist PM for not pulling up the minister for agriculture, food and civil supplies for not pulling his considerable weight while tackling rising onion prices which aren’t coming down because the current slowdown in exports from Pakistan is inversely proportional to the pace at which Indian onions were earlier shipped out?     Like the PM said in his New-Year missive, “We need to believe in the resilience of our democracy and its capacity to deal with infirmities and shortcomings through course-correction.” So, if Pawar as head of the International Cricket Council can bring the 2011 World Cup to South Asia and India, Pawar the minister for agriculture, food and civil supplies surely has enough globalised skills to correct course and ensure uninterrupted inflow of onions from across the border at Wagah. What price food inflation, when confronted with a GoM led by the PM?     And so what if AICC general secretary Digvijay Singh once quipped on national TV that people tended to underestimate Manmohan Singh the politician and overestimate Manmohan Singh the economist. We could likewise be guilty of overestimating Pawar the global cricket administrator and underestimating Pawar the minister for food, agriculture and civil supplies!
Fresh veggies see price drop Cost of Produce Like Cauliflower, Green Peas, Spinach And Methi Has Dropped To Affordable Levels Bella Jaisinghani TNN Mumbai: Delayed winter arrivals are finally shining a ray of hope on the price rise front. The cost of a few vegetables like cauliflower, green peas, spinach and methi has dropped to normal levels restoring the items to the dinner table after a considerable gap. Cauliflower hasbeen thesurpriseof the week down to Rs 20 per kg from the dizzy heights of Rs 60.     Over the weekend, sections of the city’s municipal markets resembled a village fair as vendors called out the revised rates in robust voices as if to announcethe good news. Shoppers who would ordinarily slink by after learning the price of greens began to mill around to make purchases. Stalls selling greens like spinach and fenugreek did brisk business as rates plummeted by 50% owing to robust supplies. The thin, wilted bunches of the past few weeks that had cost Rs 10 now made way for large, crisp leaves that were availablefor Rs5.Largebunches of coriander came for Rs 5.     Yet the slightly uncommon winter greens like chauli, sarson and bathua remained costly in the rangeof Rs10for a single bunch.     Special carts in and around municipal markets and railway stations were piled with tall stacks of fresh green peas, cauliflowers and carrots, each costing Rs 20-25 per kg. “Green peas had been absent from the market since they last sold in select quarters for Rs 120-140 per kg,’’ said Khar resident Ashima Dey. “It is a pleasant surprise to see a semblance of normality being restored. In factthe pricehasdroppedfrom Rs 30lastweektoRs20-25today. Waxing eloquent on the quality of cauliflowers, a vendor said: “The arrivals are so clean and white we do not even have to scrape off any dark patches on the crust.’’     The rest of the bazaar, however, remained forlorn. With only a marginal pricedrop, garlic found few buyers at Rs 280-300 per kg. Fair quality onions were available for Rs 48. Tomato retailed atRs50-60leading to conversations about the 10-rupee season last year.
Vendors’ carts overflow with fresh produce Bella Jaisinghani TNN Mumbai: Sunday evening, Worli housewife Sumedha Apte sat with a big bunch of fenugreek (methi) piled before her, snapping each stalk andcleaning the muddy leaves with rare patience. “I will never complain about cleaning the big bunches again,’’ she said. “After a gap of almost a year, I have actually got my hands on a hardy stack of methi at an affordable price of five rupees. Over the past few months, a small fist-sized bunch would cost Rs 10-12.’’     The restoration of the cost of some vegetables and greens has come as welcome relief to households in the city. After many months of having had to go without cauliflower, a staple recipein Punjabi households, Paramjit Sandhu was able to bring home the vegetable on Saturday. “Prices have finally dropped to normal levels of Rs 20 per kg,’’ Paramjit said. “However, our happiness will only be complete once onion and tomato drop to pre-inflation levels of Rs 10 per kg.’’     Dadar housewife Neeta Pendse had been undergoing heartburn at having to remove cauliflower from her menu for so long. “It is my daughter’s favourite vegetable,’’ she said. “I would see red whenever I had to pay Rs 60 for a big flower that earlier came for Rs 15-20. Even though we hail from a business family it was becoming difficult to put it on the table as frequently as we did.’’ Although she was happy for the cauliflower’s comeback she said, “It is shocking to see our choice of food being restricted by high prices.’’ Not just housewives, even businessmen who export greens expressed relief at the price reduction that was long overdue. “It comes as a piece of good news for me because spinach and methi is the mainstay of my trade,’’ said Ekram Husain of Essar Exports. “Most of Mumbai’s greens come from Narayangaon and Wada in Maharashtra where the crop was damaged by unseasonal rain. With the arrival of fresh stock, wholesale prices of spinach had dropped by a third. The benefits have now percolated to the retail level,’’ he added.
Winter of 65: Onion, beer, petrol on a par TIMES NEWS NETWORK Mumbai: The recent sharp rise in onion prices, which went beyond Rs 60 per kg in several parts of the country, also coincided with rising petrol prices due to the spike in the price of crude globally. What ensued was a curious phenomenon: Probably this was the first time in India’s history when the price of onion, a basic necessity, was on a par with the prices of petrol and beer. This phenomenon has now forced broking house analysts and economists to look at the reasons for the recent jump in onion prices and its effect on inflation.     Four officials from IDFC’s institutional broking arm recently travelled to rural Maharashtra—Pimpalgaon and Lasalgaon—the largest onion market in Asia, to understand what has led to this sudden spike in the price of onions and if there was a chance for it to come down anytime soon.     The report by IDFC Institutional Securities, titled ‘Onion Rs 65/Kg, Petrol Rs 65/lt, Beer Rs 65!’, says contrary to popular belief that onion traders were hoarding up on supplies, the main trigger for the rise in prices was unseasonal rain in October that destroyed crops in Maharashtra, the biggest onion producing state in the country, and led to a severe drop in yield per acre of land. This, in turn, prompted onion farmers to treble the prices at which they sell to the traders.     Another reason why the hoarders did not succeed was that the variety of onions harvested in October-November perish faster than the ones harvested during the middle of the year, the IDFC report pointed out. The bad news for the common man and the policymakers alike is that onion prices are unlikely to fall to the pre-spike levels for two reasons. Farmers are expected to maintain a higher price to create a safety net against crop failures. And secondly, since stakeholders within the whole onion supply chain have seen that consumers bought onion at prices over Rs 60 per Kg, they will try to maintain higher prices even if supply is restored to earlier levels.     There’s further bad news: The unseasonal rain that hit the onion crop, also affected tomato and red grapes, and the prices of these two could also shoot up soon.     “While government interventions in terms of export bans are likely to provide temporary relief to consumers, the threat of sustained long-term inflation is likely to stay,’’ the IDFC analysts, Nikhil Vora, Sanjay Panicker, Varun Kejriwal and Nikhil Salvi, noted in the report.     In a recent report, the broking arm of foreign banking major HSBC said that India’s December WPI inflation, which jumped to 8.4% year-onyear, was pushed up by onion, other vegetables and fruit prices due to weather-related crop destruction. “The government’s measures to tame food inflation are not likely to have a significant impact,’’ an HSBC report noted.
PEN PICTURES The Surprise Package In Team Manmohan UP, Kerala Polls Dictate Rejig Math Elevation Of Khurshid, Thomas A Bid To Gain Mileage In States Subodh Ghildiyal TNN New Delhi: The Congress seized the reshuffle window to rev its election machine in Uttar Pradesh and Kerala by broadbasing participation from these states in the Union ministry. The elevation of Salman Khurshid and Sriprakash Jaiswal, and induction of Beni Prasad Verma as steel minister, have upped UP’s share in the Cabinet to put it on a par with its political heft.     KV Thomas’s surprise elevation as food and consumer affairs minister and the filling of Shashi Tharoor’s slot is a leg-up for the party in Kerala, which takes on the Left Front in May polls. Giving temporary charge of civil aviation to Vyalar Ravi and making K C Venugopal junior minister for power fits ‘Mission Kerala’.     Sources said focus on short-term political battles in the reshuffle, which was expected to be a performance appraisal of UPA-2, underlined the importance of coming polls in the party matrix. The Congress is banking heavily on victories in Kerala and Assam to turn the tide after the negativity of scams. Victories on ally turfs like Bengal and Tamil Nadu would supplement the party strategy. UP polls would also decide the fate of the party’s revival attempt in the 80-seat state.     The rejig seeks to broadbase the Congress’s UP outreach. A position to Verma can renew the party’s appeal among OBCs. His elevation is a snub to the Samajwadi Party that he quit in 2007. A Cabinet rank for Khurshid aims to neutralize the SP’s bid to dent the Congress among Muslims     The Congress has lent weight of key portfolios to Kerala leaders to add to its momentum in the Left-held state. Autonomous charge of food and consumer affairs to Thomas and civil aviation to Ravi are steps in that direction. The criticality of Kerala in the Congress matrix stems from the prospect of double whammy for the Left in Bengal and Kerala.     The political subtext of the rejig in UP follows a realization in the Congress that the waning of post-2009 mood after scams and price rise will test its bare cupboard of leaders and appeal among caste groups. Cong reclaims key portfolios New Delhi: The Congress now controls three important portfolios handled by allies who did not seem to be in sync with the UPA lead player’s priorities. Telecom, food and civil supplies and civil aviation ministries delivered scams and controversies while policy and delivery suffered.     The PMO will now have a more direct bearing on the affairs of these important ministries. The PMO often found its policy initiatives thwarted by allies who either did not agree or simply did not share its sense of urgency. Telecom changed hands from DMK to Congress’s Kapil Sibal in November last year. Food and civil supplies will now be headed by K V Thomas and Vyalar Ravi will man the civil aviation ministry. TNN
Food inflation slows in Jan but worries remain TIMES NEWS NETWORK New Delhi: Food inflation slowed for the second consecutive week in January but inflationary pressures remained as prices of onions and vegetables still rule high.     Data released by the commerce and industry ministry on Thursday showed food inflation rose to 15.52% in the week ended January 8, slowing from the previous week’s 16.91%. It had shot up to a year-high of 18.32% in late December, prompting the government to announce measures to cool prices. But economists said the impact of the steps would be negligible. Food inflation has remained above 12% for the past five weeks.     Economists said food prices are likely to moderate over the next two months but overall inflation remains high as there is uncertainity over the extent of decline in food prices. “I don’t think the RBI or the government can draw any comfort from this weekly drop in food inflation,” said Samiran Chakraborty, economist at Standard Chartered Bank.     He said the RBI is expected to raise interest rates by at least 25 basis points when it reviews monetary policy on January 25. The RBI has raised interest rates six times in 2010 and is widely expected to raise rates again.     PM Manmohan Singh has said he was confident that prices would stabilize by March but certain factors were beyond the government’s control. FM Pranab Mukherjee met state finance ministers on Wednesday as part of his pre-budget consultations and urged them to review local levies which add to prices of food articles and hurt smooth movement of essential commodities. Some economists say high food price inflation may be spilling over to other sectors. Headline inflation, which slowed to 7.48% in November, shot up to 8.43% in December due to high food prices. The RBI has consistently cautioned against inflationary pressures in the economy as global commodity prices have soared in recent months. Economists say calming prices has emerged as a larger objective for the RBI than nurturing growth.
J U G U L A R V E I N Fast forward Beat food inflation, gain moksha – all you have to do is stop eating Jug Suraiya The Suraiya household is no longer a land of milk and honey. Particularly milk, the consumption of which as a whitener for tea has been strictly rationed by Bunny. Neither of us drinks tea with milk. But apparently the seemingly endless stream of workmen, mechanics and plumbers who visit the house to fix something or the other that’s stopped working were drinking up a storm, literally in a teacup, of the brew with lots of milk in it along with lashings of sugar.     Having read in the TOI that the price of milk had gone up 24% in the past one year, Bunny put her foot down. From now on it’s going to be just one cup of chai per workman. With not more than two spoons of sugar per cup. Like milk, sugar too, had become upwardly mobile in terms of cost.     And it’s not just milk and sugar. Suddenly everything seems to have become far more expensive than it was just the other day. Either that, or the contents of my wallet are shrinking in terms of provisioning the household. Bunny sits with her weekly grocery list. Is that a list of things that we have to buy this week, i ask. No, it’s a list of things we can’t afford to buy this week, says Bunny.     Topping this don’t-buy list are onions. Headlines, editorials, in-depth articles by agri-experts, and, for all i know, monographs, treatises and PhD theses have by now been written about the price of onions. But this libraryful of literature can’t explain why the supposedly humble pyaaz – the so-called poorman’s vegetable – should kg for kg rival in cost the price of a B class IPL player. More, if the player in question is suspected of being a match-fixer, a charge that has never been levelled against any onion, even one imported from Pakistan.     With the use of onions severely restricted in the kitchen, we began to subsist largely on soup and toast. Till the price of tomatoes went zooming up like one of those Isro satellites that one hears of from time to time. But while Isro satellites frequently come crashing back to earth, not so with the price of     tomatoes, or any other veggie. With tomato soup ruled out – tomatoes, together with onions having been put on the don’t-buy list – we’re stuck with butterless toast. Maybe we should burn the toast, i suggest. But that’ll make it taste even worse than it already does, says Bunny. That’s the point; it if tastes bad we’ll eat less of it, i point out. We could always ring up friends to cadge a meal at their place. But with the price of petrol what it is, what we’d save by eating at someone else’s expense would be more than offset by the transportation cost there and back. And suppose the people we call, also feeling the price pinch, turn the tables and want to come eat with us? Is there enough burnt toast to go round?     What to do about skyrocketing food prices? The finance minister doesn’t know. The agriculture minister doesn’t know. The prime minister doesn’t know. But ancient Indian wisdom knows. Fasting – the voluntary cessation of food intake – has long been a part of our tradition. People of all creeds – Hindu, Jain, Muslim, Christian, devotees of Vandana Luthra’s Curls & Curves – all fast regularly to gain spiritual brownie points. Millions more fast because they’ve never been able to afford to eat, even before food prices rose astronomically. If the country were to go on a collective fast the demand would drastically reduce, creating a supply-side surplus which could be exported, thus wiping out the country’s fiscal deficit and putting the brakes on runaway inflation.     Economics apart, fasting would benefit us physically and spiritually. Physically we’d all lose weight and cut the risk of diabetes and heart ailments. Spiritually, we’d all come close to attaining moksha, freedom from the ‘surly bonds’ of earthly life. But therein lies the rub. Like food – and everything else – suppose moksha too follows the law of demand and supply? As more and more of us entered the market for a limited supply of moksha, would stocks threaten to run out, raising the price of spiritual enlightenment?     Om, shanti, shanti, shanti? More like Om, mehngai, mehngai, mehngai.     jug.suraiya@timesgroup.com     http://blogs.timesofindia.indiatimes.com/jugglebandhi/ 
urban farming GREEN YOUR CITY Farming vegetables and fruits at home in containers on terraces and balconies is possible, and comes with immense rewards, both literal and emotional, says DEEPIKA MITAL     Just google ‘city farming’ and you will hit on innumerable sites to learn what is needed to grow your own vegetables, right here in the city. If you have the willingness to learn, the paucity of land need not worry you. Large containers can take the place of land, kitchen waste can be used as compost and recycled sullage can be used for watering the plants; basically a closed system in which organic wastes are reused instead of festering in dumps and polluting waterways.     Urban farming is not just for the poor, especially when prices of even basic vegetables like onion and tomato are touching astronomical levels. The philosophy of growing what you eat right in the city is not a new one, as across the world there is a rise in city farming. Estimates say that in 1993, 15% of the food production was accounted for from it, by today has grown exponentially. Considering that the world needs to increase food production by 70% to keep up with the rising population, it might even become a way to earn money, especially as farmland gets land banked by corporates for capital appreciation.     Cities cover only 2% of the Earth's surface, but consume 75% of its resources; basically they are black holes that are swallowing our planet. City farming will offer a way to reduce the impact they have on the environment; Asia has led the way, but awareness and practice is also growing in Africa, Latin America - till it reaches all over the world. Even USA, which has no need to do so is looking seriously at such endeavours, to be able to 'give back' to the earth. In Mexico City urban pig farmers recycle up to 4,000 tons of the city's food wastes every day; women in a vegetable-growing cooperative in Bogota, Colombia, earn three times more than their husbands do. In greater Bangkok, 72% of all urban families are engaged in raising food.     Closer home there are laudable efforts from pioneers like Dr RT Doshi, Dr. B.N. Vishwanath, Preeti Patil all of who have shown the way forward. There are constant efforts to promote city farming and educate those interested. So join the worldwide movement and grow your own vegetables - thumb your nose at the onion mafia!     Watch this space for more on 'how' and 'where', along with some expert advice. QUICK BYTES ESTIMATES SAY THAT IN 1993, 15% OF THE FOOD PRODUCTION WAS ACCOUNTED FOR FROM IT, BY TODAY HAS GROWN EXPONENTIALLY CITIES COVER ONLY 2% OF THE EARTH'S SURFACE, BUT CONSUME 75% OF ITS RESOURCES
No takers for onions from China & Pakistan Bella Jaisinghani TNN Mumbai: Around 200 tonnes of onion that have been imported from China and Pakistan are rotting for want of takers. Retailers have refused to stock low-quality onions from Pakistan and the Chinese import is bland and unsuited to the Indian palate. Moreover, India’s late kharif crop has yielded a bumper harvest and this fresh influx has also rendered the imports useless. The government agency National Agricultural Cooperative Marketing Federation (NAFED), which has been saddled with these supplies, will incur huge losses by having to make a distress sale. Meanwhile more deliveries are in the pipeline. The government has contracted around 1,000 metric tonne (mt) for import of which 200 mt have arrived and are rotting. NAFED chairman Bijender Singh confirmed the development. “Retailers are refusing to pick up imported stocks because local arrivals have started entering the market. We will have to sell the imported onions at a cheap price. We stand to make losses, but we did what was asked of us.” He declined to quantify the volume of import or the loss.     The decision to import vast quantities of onion by the Anand Sharma-led ministry of commerce has cost the country precious foreign exchange, said experts. “Instead of Wagah, Pakistani onions now come via the sea route and are almost rotten after ten days in transit,’’ say sources in New Delhi. “Chinese onions that weigh half a kilogram apiece lack pungency and are so bland they taste like cucumber.’’     Mother Dairy, one of NAFED’s distributors in New Delhi, refused to stock the bulbs saying the imported onions finds few takers at the rate of Rs 32-35 per kg. “They would rather sell the small local variety from Gujarat and Maharashtra,’’ says an observer. Commerce minister Anand Sharma was not available for comment and Mother Dairy declined to speak.
‘TRADERS RIG PRICES’ Govt Body Accuses Lasalgaon APMC Traders Of Hoarding, Mixing Graded Onions & Profiteering Bella Jaisinghani TNN Mumbai: The chairman of India’s cooperative stores’ network on Friday exposed the artful ways in which unscrupulous middlemen at the APMC in Lasalgaon, Nashik, are rigging prices of onion. In his interview with TOI, he confirmed what several experts have said off the record. Right from quoting high prices for cheap purchases to mixing different qualities of onion, the traders at APMC employ every trick in the book to milk their monopoly over the market.     The chairman of the National Co-operative Consumers’ Federation of India (NCCF), a body that worked under Sharad Pawar until Wednesday’s cabinet reshuffle, was in Mumbai on Friday. Virendra Singh had been visiting Lasalgaon, the major producing market near Nashik, to assess the situation over onion prices. What Singh saw left him speechless. A well-oiled cartel of APMC traders, who are the only ones farmers may sell to, rigs prices in several ways. They mix graded stacks of onion and sell the entire stock at inordinately high prices. “For instance, the Kolkata market prefers small onions while north India likes the large-sized ones. Farmers who bring truckloads of each kind sell their produce for Rs 1,000-1,200 per quintal (100 kg) and disperse. The traders mix all varieties and overprice them by selling them all for Rs 2,600-3,000,’’ said Singh. “Farmers should be asked to bag graded onions so that they earn their rightful dues.’’     APMC traders, he said, also procure 98% of the produce for as little as Rs 1,000-1,200 per quintal and deliberately buy the remaining 2% for Rs 3,000. They do this just so they can quote Rs 3,000 as the benchmark purchase rate and sell to retailers for a higher sum.     If that was not enough, traders use the pretext of “drying” onions to hold back stocks for three or four days, fuelling an artificial shortage that spurs price rise.     Confirming what NAFED managing director Sanjeev Chopra had said a few days before, the NCCF chief said that there was an unexplained discrepancy in supply and pricing. Chopra had said the shortage caused by unseasonal rain was minor and did not warrant such a phenomenal price rise. On Friday, Singh furnished a chart that had details of daily arrivals in all producing markets in the country. He pointed out that while arrivals were on par with last year, prices remained two or three times higher than 2010.     “It is time the government revisited the APMC Act which drives monopoly,’’ he said. “We are facing a crisis situation with farmers and consumers both bearing the brunt of the situation. APMC traders have the power to control prices and they should turn their attention to the woes of the common man.’’ NCCF has a membership of hundreds of cooperative store outlets including Apna Bazar and Sahakari Bhandar and Singh feels the government could directly procure onions from farmers and sell them cheap through such networks. Ingenious Ways To Raise Prices Awell-oiled cartel of APMC traders, who are the only ones farmers may sell to, rigs prices in several ways, say officials •MIXED BAG |Farmers who bring truckloads of different varieties of onions sell their produce for Rs 1,000-1,200 per quintal (100 kg). The traders then mix all the varieties and sell them for Rs 2,600-3,000 •PUSHING UP MARKET RATES | Traders procure 98% of the produce for as little as Rs 1,000-1,200 per quintal and buy the remaining 2% for Rs 3,000. This allows them to increase the benchmark purchase rate •HOARDING |Under the pretext of drying onions, traders hold back stocks for 3 days fuelling an artificial shortage
Men in black These are tough times for honest bribers Dilip Bobb     Icame upon a group of men in a five-star lobby. They were all dressed in black suits, black ties, dark glasses, mournful faces. It was like a scene from Men In Black if it were made in India and shot by Ram Gopal Varma. Maybe they were bankers or CEOs mourning the Great Depression, i thought, since they all had briefcases. I asked if they were bankers since they were meeting in a five-star lobby. No, they replied, they were often accused of being lobbyists, so they chose the venue, but they were in mourning. Had somebody died? i asked. “Yes”, they declared, “our livelihood.”     I inquired as to their line of business. In hushed tones, they informed me that they were members of NAB, as if that explained everything. When i expressed ignorance, they stood up and said it stood for the National Association of Bribers and they were all life members. I reminded them that the rise in the number of cases involving kickbacks had gone through the roof, including the one covering Parliament House during the last session, and it looked like a son-rise industry, so by any logic, they should be celebrating. They shook their heads sorrowfully. The government, they said, was in a fix over the fixers and had decided to crack down on corruption.     It was the kickback of kickbacks. The prime minister’s pristine image was at stake and also the government’s future. No one, they declared sadly, was willing to take a normal bribe any more. Big Brother was watching, and listening, the police were on the prowl instead of on the take, Adarsh was being demolished and, thanks to Sonia Gandhi’s missive to chief ministers to give up their discretionary powers, it had led to massive disruptions in the bribery chain. Iexpressed curiosity about NAB. They said it was an all-India body formed by people who had based their livelihoods on greasing palms. Only the very highly accomplished and those with proven ability in bribe-giving could become members. On joining, new members were given a secret password, a tin of grease, a briefcase, a badge and a list of people in positions of authority who were, as they put it, ‘accommodating’ – as in, accommodation in prestigious high-rise apartments facing the sea. They showed me the membership badge; it depicted grainy footage of a hand slipping currency notes into a drawer. It looked familiar. I asked why the black outfits. We are the original Men In Black, they declared, since they only dealt in black.     Did they all have to wear the badge at all times? Yes, it was a badge of honour, it proved that you were well networked and well versed in the art of lobbying and magically causing files to move up the chain of approvals or even disappear. It had, they explained, given birth to a Rs 1.76 lakh crore industry, although there were people like Kapil Sibal who were contesting that figure. Now, they saw that industry being threatened by the recent crackdown, phone taps, arrests, resignations, CBI raids, RTIs and WikiLeaks’ disclosures on Indians with Swiss bank accounts. Swiss banks, they explained, were the ultimate and safest destination for all ill-gotten wealth. If Swiss banks were starting to resemble Swiss cheese, what was the future for NAB? They would, they complained, all be Nabbed eventually.     I argued that corruption was certain to make a comeback since it was so deeply embedded in Indian culture. They agreed but pointed out the other reason their livelihood was threatened. Inflation had hit the bribery industry hard, prices of everything had shot up and people were no longer accepting cash. So what was the new currency of choice? They opened their briefcases to show me the contents. They were filled with onions. Their eyes filled with tears.
SEC O N D O P I N I O N Thin edge of the veg If we can’t afford to buy onions perhaps it’s time to grow our own Jug Suraiya Do our experts know their onions? Speaking about the steep rise in the price of vegetables, particularly onions, and what to do about it, the deputy chairman of the Planning Commission, Montek Singh Ahluwalia, made the suggestion that “farmers should be allowed to sell their produce to the best intermediary who will give them and the consumers the best price”. Helpful advice, though more than a little obvious. Like saying that a circle should be allowed to be round in shape.     Of course farmers should be enabled so that they can sell what they grow to the person who gives them the best price, thus incentivising them to grow more, instead of being forced to sell their produce for a pittance to rapacious middlemen who currently control the mandis and jack up food prices at will at the expense of the consumer. It’s an obvious problem, with an obvious solution: permit foreign chains like Tesco – who have perfected the technique of bulk buying and bulk selling – to set up shop in India. In countries where such chains exist, food prices remain relatively stable, thanks to the competition between rival supermarket organisations.     As obvious as this solution is, it is ruled out because of political opposition – mainly by the BJP and the Left, who for once are on the same side of the ideological divide – to foreign direct investment in the retail business. We can’t let these exploitative foreigners in because they might rob us. So much better instead that we let ourselves be robbed by our own monopoly of exploitative middlemen. Keep it in the family, so to speak.     Another suggestion, made by the agriculture ministry, is to have vegetable farm clusters located within a 50 km radius of all large towns and cities. Not a very practicable solution, considering the escalating price of real estate on the growing periphery of urban India where mixed-use residential-cum-commercial townships are springing up every day. To make it economically attractive to reserve such sought-after real estate for vegetable farming, the price of onions would have to be . 1,000 a kg, or more.     So much for expert advice on how to bring down the price of veggies. Perhaps what we need now is some inexpert advice. As always, the most inexpert advice is the simplest. And in this case it amounts to a simple proposition: if we can’t afford to buy sabzi from others, let’s grow our own. All municipal parks, gardens, maidans and other open spaces, all over the country, should be put under veggie cultivation. Who needs grass when you can have gobhis instead, or chrysanthemums when you can have cabbages? To set an example for the nation to follow, Rashtrapati Bhavan should lead the way by turning its Mughal Gardens into a sabzi patch, with the president awarding, in a televised ceremony, a special prize to the mali who could produce the biggest mooli or kaddu.     Lawns attached to private homes should by law be put under vegetable cultivation. Don’t have a house with a lawn, but just a pokey little flat, and rented at that? No problem. You too can do your bit for the cause of ensuring the nation’s veggie security. Grow potatoes and tomatoes instead of flowers in the paudhas perched on your window sill.     Inflation, of any kind, is a self-fulfilling condition based as it is not just on shortages but on the expectation of continuing, and worsening, shortages. If something is more costly today than it was yesterday, it will be costlier tomorrow than it is today. Such reasoning leads to hoarding, and creates further shortages. But with everyone growing their own the spectre of veggie shortages will forever be exorcised.     We need a symbol for this new Green Revolution. Jawaharlal Nehru made the rose he wore in his lapel the symbol of his India. Maybe Rahul should start sporting a pyaaz on h i s lapel.     secondopinion@timesgroup.com     http://blogs.timesofindia.indiatimes.com/jugglebandhi/ 
Expensive tomatoes leave bitter taste in Indian curry Bella Jaisinghani | TNN Mumbai: Ten days after Makar Sankranti, when a bumper crop of onion was harvested across Maharashtra and Gujarat, prices are yet to assume normalcy in retail markets. Coupled with this, the high cost of another staple, tomato, is proving to be a double whammy for middle class households.     Households and restaurants find themselves pushed into a corner. It is two months since tomato has been causing grief and the authorities are silent on this front. The vegetable is ordinarily sold for Rs 10 per kg during the winter season, even Rs 8 if it is small or less firm. In contrast, nowadays the smallest variety that is partially yellow costs Rs 35 in the retail market while the robust red ones come for Rs 45-48.     “Earlier one was forced to opt for tomato-based gravies over onion,” says Shyama Chaudhary whose north Indian meals are incomplete without both. “Perhaps realizing that more consumers were looking to tomato for relief, vendors have increased the cost of this vegetable as well.”     As far as commercial establishments are concerned, several restaurants have annual contracts that affix a certain price to a commodity for the entire year. However, even eateries have no option but to pay revised rates. “We buy tomato among other food items on a daily basis because we believe it helps control the quality of the produce,” says Mahendra Karkera who owns Mahesh Lunch Home at Kala Ghoda. “These days we receive a small shock when the bill arrives every evening. The amount is nearly double of what we used to pay. Restaurants make bulk purchases but pay nearly the same amount as ordinary consumers do.”     Vegetable wholesaler Makarand Churi blames the sharp increase in prices on the unseasonal rainfall in parts of Nashik, Pune, Sangli, Dahanu and Palghar, which despatch tomatoes to Mumbai. However, it is retailers who face the onslaught of questions from consumers. Bandra vendor Shrikant Jaiswal who has been selling tomatoes for Rs 30-40 per kg is constrained for answers. “Ordinarily, winter is a time to indulge in fresh vegetables. This is when you see the arrival of rich red, luscious tomatoes which people buy in bulk not just to cook but also to prepare salads and sandwiches. My customers complain at this season’s contrast but I can only shrug and blame unsteady arrivals,” Jaiswal says.
ONIONS HIT 4 in Nashik Yet The Bulbs Are Retailing At Rs 25-45/Kg In City. New Rates Should Reflect In Two Days, Say Experts Bella Jaisinghani | TNN     After the drought the deluge. Thirty thousand quintals of onion arrived at Lasalgaon Mandi in Nashik by 11.00 am on Tuesday and were being traded for as little as Rs 4.30 per kg. TOI had forecast this dip last week. It remains to be seen how soon this surfeit will benefit the common consumer in Mumbai given that retail rates continue to hover at Rs 25-45 per kg. It’s worth noting that no sooner have prices reduced than APMC traders are pushing for the government to resume exports. “By 11.00 am Tuesday, 30,000 quintals of onion had flooded Lasalgaon Mandi, and were being traded for Rs 430 to Rs 1,350 per quintal,” said Virendra Singh, chairman of the National Co-operative Consumers’ Federation of India (NCCF). One quintal is the equivalent of 100 kg so this translates into Rs 4.30-13.50 per kg. “In fact, the ongoing heavy arrivals in Gujarat have led to only 50% of the produce being sold. The rest is being dumped unsold causing onions to sprout,” he added.     The arrival of 175-200 trucks resumed at Vashi’s APMC on Tuesday, causing wholesale rates to drop to Rs 10-17 per kg. But retail prices were typically slow to react. Ten days after the promised restoration of normalcy on Makar Sankranti, Mumbaikars continue to pay Rs 25-45 for a kilo of onion. “It takes a mere rumour about unseasonal rain for prices to rise overnight. The benefits of price reduction do not percolate with the same promptness,” said an observer. Onion is commonly sold for Rs 12-15 per kg.     However, what is good news for the consumer spells the end of the gold rush for middlemen who have made a killing during this period. As rates plummeted to Rs 1,000 per quintal on Monday and threatened to dip further, traders halted business at Nashik for fear that their profits would be compromised. NCCF chairman Virendra Singh said the traders had closed shop partially for fear that another income-tax raid was imminent. He said, “Onion prices will continue to fall with fresh inflow. It is wrong of traders to halt purchases.”     Though they describe themselves as commission agents who are not involved in export, leaders of APMCs in Maharashtra have quickly urged the government to resume the despatch of onion to other countries. “The bumper harvest has caused a glut of onions in the market,” said Ashok Walunj, chairman, onion-potato market in Vashi’s APMC. TOI asked if this would not cause another shortfall in the local market, leading to a fresh round of price rise. “Export is necessary to stabilize prices at Rs 10-15 per kg. Otherwise the retail price of onion could fall to as little as Rs 5 per kg,” he said. Retail Prices Then And Now     Onions usually cost Rs 12-15 per kg. It now stands at Rs 25-45, but prices are expected to return to normalcy with an unprecedented bumper harvest in Maharashtra and Gujarat     Tuvar dal usually retails at Rs 45-50 per kg. But rumours of shortfall in the next harvest in Madhya Pradesh have already pushed prices up to Rs 96 per kg in some parts of the city     Tomato usually sells for Rs 8-10 per kg in winter. It is now selling for Rs 40-50
‘On inflation, there are too many voices in the system’     Former Reserve Bank of India governor Bimal Jalan tells Surojit Gupta controlling inflation should be the government’s priority number one. Is there a short term solution to the food inflation problem? Hard to say. Short term can only depend on imports, curbing speculation and releasing the food that we have. Now the major problem is about inflationary expectations also. But the inflationary expectations are very high leading to a speculative surge in prices. The speculation is not only by traders but even by an average household. If they expect the prices of vegetables to go up it makes more sense for them to buy more. Your and my families will buy more onions or more of something if you have the cash when you expect prices to go up. So price expectations play an important role in effectiveness of any price control in a sensitive commodity like food or vegetables which are perishable and which in the short term you can’t increase supply. I don’t know. What is the medium-term solution? High prices are forcing households to alter lifestyle? Naturally. For the lower middle class and the middle class it is a shocking thing. This kind of rise in prices is unexpected, but I think government has to think about the medium term. Some of these are long term problems. The question therefore is what happened in 2011? You take the agriculture situation. It has persisted for a long time. The issue of prices of some vegetables going up and some going down has been there. What has changed the situation unexpectedly is the issue the government has to grapple with. I think there is too much talk of inflation falling. If it doesn’t then it establishes a question of credibility. What would do you think should the government do to control inflation? I really do not want to get into the prescriptive part because I haven’t done enough research but it is unusual (the extent of price rise). Besides, why is it that we have not been able to control inflationary expectations? Because there are too many voices in the system --somebody says it will come down somebody says it will not come down. What is your view on the growth versus inflation debate? Of course. There is no doubt. At the moment the highest priority should be inflation. For the country growth is important but in the trade off between growth and inflation I would give higher priority to inflation. Do you think monetary policy works as a tool against food inflation? Between monetary policy and inflation there is a transmission lag. Transmission lag means if you do something today it won’t have an impact tomorrow. If you want a short-term answer to this question the obvious point is that yes monetary policy is not effective in the shortrun in controlling inflation when it has gone out of hand. But over a period of time certainly because money supply matters. In the long run monetary policy is important. How do you see the overall economic situation? My assessment is that inflation is a real issue just now. It should be the highest priority in the next quarter.
Households feel the pinch of RISING PRICES The purse never felt this light as families cut corners to balance budgets in times of soaring living expenses Surojit Gupta | TNN New Delhi: Rising vegetable prices, transport costs and house rents are slowly squeezing household budgets forcing families to cut down on their food budgets and leaving them with virtually nothing to save.     Vijay Sharma is an accountant with a multinational company. He desperately wanted to buy a house for his family but was forced to abandon the plan. Rising borrowing costs have dashed his dreams and soaring prices of food and vegetables forced him to change his lifestyle.     “The government maybe trying to control prices but it is not reflecting on the ground. I had a dream of buying a house but with bank interest rates rising, it seems this will remain a dream for sometime now,” Sharma said.     TOI spoke to three other families across different income slabs in Delhi and the view was that spiralling prices were beginning to pinch. Families blamed the government for failing to tackle prices and making life difficult for the common man.     Inflation has emerged as a headache for the government and a policy challenge for Reserve Bank of India. Economists and policymakers say there are no easy or immediate solutions. Rising global commodity prices and soaring crude oil rates have added to the problem. Oil is testing $100 a barrel and any increase in global crude prices poses problems for the economy because India imports 70% of its oil needs. Domestic oil firms raised petrol prices six times since June last year and the increase is close to 8%.     Food inflation zoomed to 18.32% in December-end and has remained stubborn over 15% for four weeks. It rose to 15.57% in mid-January, but economists say it will remain high for some months as it is difficult to predict how food prices will behave in the months ahead. Overall inflation rose to 8.43% in December up from 7.48% in November.     The latest spurt in food prices is led by the spiralling costs of vegetable, fruit, milk and meat. While a large part of the problem is because of supply bottlenecks, the government attributes it to the widening gap between wholesale and retail prices and the growing demand for these products because of rising income levels.     But people blame the government's faulty policies for high inflation which policymakers say has been taxing the poor. Sharma and his wife say they have cut down on onions and other vegetables and are worried about the education costs for their three-year-old daughter. The anger and frustration over high prices is palpable.     “The government has not gone to the root cause of inflation. There has to be cause and effect analysis and then they should come out with solutions,” said Taroon Khosla, a manager with an outsourcing firm. Khosla said his family could not afford eating out anymore. “Eating out is not an option for us. There is no scope for entertainment. If you go to watch a movie one ticket costs Rs 150 and the whole experience can set you back by a substantial amount.”     For Rajiv Kumar, a sales representative, rising petrol prices is impacting his monthly budget. “I somehow save a small amount to pay for my LIC policy. Everything is expensive now. The government should do something quickly to address the problem.”     But it is those at the bottom of the pyramid who are facing the brunt of rising prices. Gaya Prasad, who earns about Rs 5,000 a month ironing clothes, says life has become extremely difficult for him and his family. “We have stopped eating vegetables ... We have to survive on roti and chutney most of the time,” Prasad said.
Food inflation above 15% for 4th week TIMES NEWS NETWORK New Delhi: Food inflation remained above 15% for the fourth consecutive week in mid-January on the back of high onion, fruit and vegetables prices.     Data released by the commerce and industry ministry on Thursday showed that the food price index rose 15.57% in the week to January 15, marginally higher than the previous week’s 15.52%. The fuel price index rose 10.87%, lower than the previous week’s 11.53%.     Economists said food inflation seems to have peaked but high inflation is here to stay for the rest of the year. ‘2011 will be year of high inflation’     High food prices have emerged as a major policy challenge for the government and the Reserve Bank of India.     “We have crossed the peak of food inflation. The high food prices are a combination of both supply side and speculative shock,” N R Bhanumurthy, economist at the National Institute of Public Finance and Policy, said.     “There is inflationary pressure across the world. There is a need for concerted effort at the global level to combat inflation. The G20 has a major role to play here. People in India will have to continue to live with higher than tolerable inflation for one more year. Tolerable inflation for India is 5% to 6%,” he said.     High food inflation has contributed to rising headline inflation which rose 8.43% in December, accelerating from November’s 7.48%. The government has taken some measures to calm prices while the RBI raised key interest rates on Tuesday. This was the seventh time since March that the RBI raised interest rates to calm price pressures.     The index for food articles group rose to 190.8 from 190.6 for the previous week due to higher prices of jowar (7%), arhar (4%) and maize, masur, fruits and vegetables, fish and chicken (1% each).     RBI governor Duvvuri Subbarao has said that inflation is clearly the dominant concern and cautioned that there are signs of food and fuel price increases spilling over into generalized inflation. The RBI has also raised its March-end inflation forecast to 7% from the earlier 5.5%.     “New pressure points are emerging on the inflation front. Oil, raw materials, minerals and fibres are rising. 2011 will be a year of high inflation and will remain a key policy challenge,” said D K Joshi, chief economist at ratings agency Crisil.
Dabangg sweeps Mirchi Awards Munni Badnaam Hui drowns Sheila Ki Jawani in the awards race Prithwish Ganguly I TNN After listening to the tracks of the Salman Khan starrer Dabangg, everyone believed that the songs would be clear favourites to win at awards. From Munni Badnaam Hui to Tere Mast Mast Do Nain, Dabangg emphatically walked away with the top honours at the Uninor Mirchi Music Awards 2010 powered by Karbonn Mobiles. The grand celebration of music that was held on Thursday evening at the Bandra Kurla Complex also saw Malaika ‘Munni’ Arora Khan win over Katrina ‘Sheila’ Kaif as Munni Badnaam Hui by Mamta Sharma and Aishwarya won the Best Song as well as Best Item Number and also a couple more, beating the Sunidhi Chauhan-sung Sheila Ki Jawani featuring Kat’s hot-bod and belly dancing.     From drama on stage to scintillating performances to courting controversy — Akshay Kumar’s streak of flops in 2010 was made fun of, Sharad Pawar and Suresh Kalmadi came under fire for onion prices and the Commonwealth Games sham respectively and a lot more — the musical awards night celebrated excellence in Indian music and felicitated music maestros of the Hindi film industry. The show was hosted by the confident hosts Sonu Nigam and Shaan who made the proceedings effortless and also showcased the comic side to their personality by pulling fast ones on themselves as well as their collegues from the industry.
Some tweets from Dr Yum Yum Singh Minutes after earthquake around 2 am on January 19     Hello? Mr NSA! What was that tremor? Did @wikileaks release the Swiss Bank account list?     Dear @SoniaGaXdhi Madamji you can go back to sleep. We have confirmed it wasn’t due to the Cabinet reshuffle. In a run-up to the Cabinet reshuffle     Dear @Sonia - GaXdhi No matter how much I reshuffle, the same jokers turn up!     Hain? No we don’t have Tatkal scheme for cabinet berths. After the reshuffle     Why are vegetable prices so high? We have so many in my Cabinet. On inflation     Buy a kg of onions 4 Rs 65, drown yr tears in a beer 4 another Rs 65 & if that doesn’t work another 65 buys a litre of petrol 2 end it all. After Jairam Ramesh’ comments on Akshardham Temple     Hello! Rahul? Ramesh Jairam uncle wants greenhorns in the cabinet? On Kapil Sibal     Dear @kapil_sibal ji always take the first foot out of your mouth before inserting the second one!
Buyers relieved as veggie prices dip to 10 per kg Bella Jaisinghani TNN Mumbai: On Friday two diametrically opposite scenes unfolded at prime trading markets in the city. The Sensex dipped by 288 points while the Nifty fell by 92 points, leading to tumult in business circles. On the other hand, retail prices in Mumbai's vegetable markets crashed to Rs 10 per kg, evoking relief and satisfaction among consumers.     On Friday evening, the cost of cauliflower, cabbage and bottle gourd (dudhi) fell to Rs 10 per kg, a clean drop of fifty percent since the past week. Last Sunday these vegetables were selling for Rs 20 per kg on average, with cauliflower prices down from the mid-January mark of Rs 60.     Across neighbourhood bazaars and municipal markets, shoppers made a pleasant sight, arms laden with bagfuls of winter produce. Large bunches of fenugreek (methi) weighing approximately one kg were selling for Rs 5. After several months, the price of spinach has normalized to Rs 4 per bunch, with a cluster of three bundles available for Rs 10. “Until last month, these greens cost thrice this amount,” said Shravani Belekar, a housewife who was making purchases at Andheri municipal market on Friday. “Now even special winter greens like chauli are selling for five rupees which is a heartening development given that our monthly budgets have gone askew over the past year or two,” she added.     Healthy pods of green peas were available for Rs 20 per kg, with prices having reduced by Rs 5 this week itself. Carrot abundantly lines the market and is being sold for its winter average of Rs 12 per kg, eight rupees less than last Sunday’s rate of Rs 20. However, it is cauliflower that has begun to occupy centre stage across city markets these days. Carts and kerbside stalls are laden with pieces that weigh upto oneand-a-half kg each.     “I must say I have not seen such marvelous produce in years, and at such affordable rates,” said shopper Asmitha Menon “Nashik has yielded a bumper crop of several vegetables this time,” says a grocer.     Although cabbage and bottle gourd witnessed a dip from Rs 15-Rs 20 last week to Rs 10 per kg, buyers seemed to have had enough of these. “We virtually subsisted on cabbage during the inflationary months,” laughed Belekar. “Now it is time to indulge in vegetables that we were deprived of since months.” No respite on onion, tomatoes Mumbai: Despite an abundance of winter arrivals from Maharashtra and Gujarat, onion continues to cost Rs 25-40 in Mumbai. The chief of Vashi APMC’s onion-potato market, Ashok Walunj says retailers need to dispose the old stock they bought at high rates before they can reduce prices for consumers. Meanwhile tomatoes continue to remain costly at Rs 30-40 per kg.
INDO-PAK Battle of the bulb & berry Indian traders hit back with a ban on tomato exports after Pakistan stopped sending us onions, propelling cross-border tensions into a vegetable phase Divya A & Omer Farooq Khan | TNN New Delhi/Islamabad: An unusual battle over vegetables marks the newest phase of the cold war between India and Pakistan on the Wagah border. For India, the struggle has meant a ding-dong battle over the price of onions; for Pakistan, it is tomatoes.     When onion prices skyrocketed in India last month, truckloads of imports from Pakistan came to the rescue. Between 400 and 500 tonnes of onions were sent across the Wagah border every day to feed Punjab, Haryana, Himachal and Delhi’s appetite for the pungent bulbous plant. Then suddenly, on January 4, the Pakistani government banned the export of onions to India via the land route. An official notification issued by the Pakistani ministry of commerce said: “Onion exports allowed except over the land route via Wagah to India.” A ministry official justified the ban with the rationale: “If it was not done, onion prices in Pakistan would have shot up to over Rs 100 a kg in Pakistan.”     On January 5, the vegetable battle began in earnest, with more than 50 Amritsar traders announcing that they would stop sending tomatoes and chillies across the border. More than 150 truckloads of the vegetables were left stranded at the Wagah border.     Like the Pakistani official who predicted a domestic onion crisis, Indian traders insisted there might be a “domestic tomato crisis” if they continue to export tomatoes to Pakistan. Unofficially, however, the traders admit that the onion vs tomato battle is ridiculous and non-profitable for both sides. The traders say that “the vegetable trade between India and Pakistan is mutually beneficial”.     The Indian traders explain the tomato stoppage as an eye-for-an-eye mindset: “If they can’t help us in our time of need, let us also teach them a lesson.” But they add that “we are not against the Pakistani traders, we are angry at their government’s position”.     Traders on either side of the border seem to understand the problems of allowing politics into commerce. Anil Mehra, president of the Indian Retail Exporters’ Association, said that he knows for a fact that traders in Lahore suffered huge losses because of the ban on onion exports. He added that Pakistani traders accused their government of being foolishly discriminatory because onions continued to be exported from Karachi by sea to Sri Lanka, Malaysia, Indonesia and Dubai.     Before they stopped dispatching tomatoes to Pakistan in great quantities, nearly 100 truckloads would slip across the border every day. Today, it’s just a fourth of that, says customs official R K Duggal, who is posted at the Wagah border. There is potential for this vegetable battle to get serious, if not exactly bloody, at least for Pakistan. India is a major exporter of vegetables to Pakistan, not least tomatoes, green chillies, soya bean, capsicum, potatoes and ginger. Tomatoes and chillies make up half of the vegetables exported. Meanwhile, India imports nothing but onions from Pakistan. Pakistan’s dependence on Indian tomatoes and chillies is such that prices have been soaring with the street price of 80 to 100 Pakistani rupees per kilo roughly five times that when they leave the Indian border. A Lahore vegetable vendor gloomily predicts that “tomato prices could go up to Rs 200 a kg if Indian exporters do not resume normal exports to Pakistan”.     Vegetable exporters on both sides admit that there is a problem with allowing politics to govern trade. The Amritsar-based Indo-Pak Exporters’ Association chairman, Om Prakash Arora, said Pakistan’s ban on onions was “shocking. I was in Pakistan only a few days (before the ban) and there was no shortage of onions there”. The rising chorus in Pakistan to allow onions to be exported to India forced Prime Minister Yousaf Raza Gilani to bow to traders’ demands, but in a half-hearted fashion. He allowed exports by land for orders contracted before January 4 and for which payments had already been received.     The problem, says Vipin Mehra, an onion importer in Amritsar, is that this is as good as a ban. “Since the vegetable trade on either side of the border is largely based on oral commitments and orders placed over the telephone, there are no official documents such as letters of credit to prove orders were placed on so-andso date.” In practice then, the export of onions to India remains non-existent, says Mehra. And Pakistan may have to wait a while to make a tomato shorba without any thought to prices.
E R R A T I C A Aman ki Smasha The Indo-Pak veggie war: tamatar makes a noisy shor-ba and dopyaza becomes no-pyaza Bachi Karkaria At the Wagah border, jingoistic crowds from both sides gather every evening to cheer/boo the belligerent posturing of the Indian and Pakistani security forces as the respective flags are lowered for the night. Now, a real battle is in progress there with the maidan-e-jung soaked in blood-red tomato juice and onion-induced tears.     And to think that it started as a gracious, neighbourly gesture. Seeing their Indian brothers reeling under a skyrocket attack of onion prices, the Pakistanis rushed nearly 500 tonnes of emergency supplies to India and the relief of grateful housewives. Aman ki Asha was alive, well and spreading its comforting aromas. But then came a diktat from Islamabad’s commerce ministry. Citing the likelihood of onion prices ‘shooting up to over Rs 100 a kg in Pakistan’ as a result of exports, it decreed that no onions could be sent to India via the land route, which is the most economical one.     This flashpoint was no flash in the pan. The very next day, the Indian side retaliated. Some 50 Amritsari traders announced that they would stop the export of tomatoes and chillies across the border. Rolling their sleeves and their eyes, they hoisted Pakistan by its own padwal, saying that prices of these vegetables in India might skyrocket too if such exports continued. Then, putting their muscle where their mouth was, they stopped some 150 fully loaded trucks from crossing over.     It is not known if a slugfest began, using the rotting tomatoes and chillies, but one thing is certain. An eye for an eye will not only make the whole world blind, but could leave it broke – and hungry – too. Since capsicum is also a major item of export from India, this eye-bulb to eye-bulb confrontation on the border will hopefully end with a Shimla Mirch Agreement. On the other hand, trenchant positions on both sides could Agra-vate the conflict.     If butter sense prevails, we could see a new version of the dinner diplomacy now used to stop war by more palatable means. It began with Nixon’s audacious bid to thaw Sino-US ties. Mao’s supporters had condemned him as a ‘gangster who wielded a butcher’s knife’, and a stunned Kissinger had reportedly spluttered to General Haig, “Al, this fellow Nixon wants to open relations with China. I think he has lost control of his senses.” Yet, there was Tricky Dick knocking back mai-tais with Zhou Enlai in Beijing in May 1972.     Hu knows how much things have changed. The Chinese president’s first engagement in Washington this January was a White House dinner. And, when President Obama visited us, Manmohan Singh showed that he could be as adept as a Delhi socialite when it came to using a fine table to turn the global pecking order to one’s own advantage.     Actual eatable, excretable food is also a serious ingredient of bilateral relations, even of superpower-dom. Witness the hegemony of US agricultural exports. We had our own PL 480 dependency in the early decades of independence. In the 1970s, the Nixon administration was embarrassed by the ‘great grain robbery’ when the American people unwittingly ended up subsidising wheat exports to the USSR. In the ’80s, Reagan banned these to punish Russia for its invasion of Afghanistan.     To return to the veggie war at Wagah, as always, the fraternal ties between the two peoples have not been fried; the conflict remains only official. As an Amritsari sabzi saudagar said, “We are not against Pakistani traders, only against their government’s position.”     Nevertheless, as Shri Kauliflower and Janaab Auberjinnah dig in their roots, you can be sure that no visiting cultural troupes are crooning ‘Jab pyaz diya toh darna kya’.     * * *     Alec Smart said: “How do Egyptians now congratulate each other? With a ‘Mubarak Go’.”     bachi.karkaria@timesgroup.com     http://blogs.timesofindia.indiatimes.com/erratica 
Food inflation spurts again, crosses 17% Onions, Veggies Pile Up Pressure TIMES NEWS NETWORK New Delhi: Food inflation surprisingly shot up in late January due to high prices of onions and vegetables, piling fresh pressure on the UPA government which is already battling a string of corruption allegations.     Data released by the commerce and industry ministry on Thursday showed the food price index rose 17.05% in the week to January 22, rising from the previous week’s 15.57%. Food inflation stood at 20.56% in the same period last year.     Economists said the latest spurt in food inflation was surprising as vegetable and onion prices had shown some signs of moderation since December when food inflation shot up to 18.32%. Retail prices of vegetables and onions have eased in the past two to three weeks.     “Prices of vegetables and onions have moderated and this will be reflected in the data in the coming weeks. But overall inflation will remain high for the rest of the year as non-food inflation will dominate in the months ahead,” D K Joshi, chief economist at ratings agency Crisil, said.     Unseasonal rains had damaged vegetable and onion crops which impacted supplies, leading to a sudden spike in food prices. The government was forced to import onions from Pakistan to ease the situation.     On Thursday, finance minister Pranab Mukherjee played down the increase in food inflation in late January and said the government was taking steps to moderate price pressures. “Just yesterday, I said that these types of fluctuations take place, sometimes weekly fluctuations, sometimes monthly fluctuations,” Mukherjee told reporters. “Price rise, particularly of essential commodities and food, is always a matter of grave concern.”     He said efforts were being made both from demand and supply sides to moderate price pressures. Fuel price index soars to 11.61% New Delhi: The government has taken some steps such as banning export of onions and pulses and a crackdown on hoarders to calm food prices. FM Pranab Mukherjee will present the 2011-12 Union Budget on February 28 and economists expect more steps to ease supply bottlenecks and shore up the country’s farm infrastructure. The UPA government has been under attack from the opposition over rising prices.     Thursday’s data showed that the fuel price index also rose to 11.61% in the year to January 22, rising from the previous week’s 10.87%.     Food inflation has remained stubborn for almost a year and now economists say there is evidence of it spilling into overall inflation. The widely watched wholesale price index, the main measure of inflation in the country, rose to 8.43% in December, rising from November’s 7.48% and largely driven by high food prices.     The Reserve Bank of India has raised interest rates seven times since March 2010 to tame inflation and has flagged it as a major concern. It has raised its March-end inflation estimate to 7% from the previous projection of 5.5%.     “On balance, overall WPI inflation is expected to be fairly rigid in January as compared to the provisional estimate of 8.4% inflation in December 2010,” Aditi Nayar, economist at ratings agency ICRA, said.     Crisil’s Joshi said high WPI inflation would continue to attract monetary policy action in the months ahead.     The index for food articles group rose by 0.7% due to higher prices of arhar (4%), masur, condiments & spices, fish-marine, barley and fruits & vegetables (2% each) and maize, wheat, jowar, gram, moong and urad (1% each). Milk prices declined 1%, data showed.     The index for non-food articles group rose by 1.4% due to higher prices of castor seed (19%), flowers (11%), safflower (kardi seed) (8%) and raw rubber (5%). Cabinet panel discusses prices C oncerned over the scarcity of milk powder, the cabinet committee on prices which met on Thursday discussed the overall price situation. It also discussed whether there was a need to import milk powder, sources said.
Govt lifts ban on exports of some variety of rice New Delhi: Buoyed by prospects of higher rice production this year, the government on Wednesday decided to lift the three-year ban on exports by allowing shipment of 3 varieties of the non-basmati grain grown in four southern states.     The decision to allow exports of these varieties—Ponni Samba, Rosematta and Sona Masuri—is subject to a cap of 1.50 lakh tonnes, food, agriculture minister Sharad Pawar told reporters after the meeting.     Exemptions from the export ban would also be contingent upon the value of shipment exceeding $850 per tonne. An Empowered Group of Minister (EGoM) also allowed exports of “Rose” variety of onion grown in Karnataka. Onion prices have dropped to about Rs 20-25 per kg, after touching a high of Rs 85 in December.     While the government is battling food inflation that touched 17.05% , prices of rice have remained stable with a small increase of 3%. Ponni Samba, Rosematta and Sona Masuri varieties are grown in Tamil Nadu, Kerala, Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka. PTI
Onions bring tears of joy for Vasai farmers TIMES NEWS NETWORK Mumbai: If the drop in onion prices was good news, here’s more. Fields in Vasai region are blooming with onion crops and farmers are delighted with the yield.     Villages like Gass, Nirmal, Kalam in Nalasopara (west) have witnessed a good crop of onions. “The plants have started flowering and in the coming days, we will have fresh onions,” said a villager from Gass Shreedar Patil.     Onions were being procured from Nashik for the past two to three months. The price of big sized onions has fallen to Rs 18-20 a kg. Small onions are going for as little as Rs 5-10 a kg in the Vasai-Virar region.     Farmers said that fresh crop of onions is an indication that the cultivation will be good. Due to the shortage of onions, acres of fields in the region have been used to cultivate onions. Farmers say that onion prices will further fall in the coming days when new crops arrive.
Food inflation eases to 7-week low Price Index Drops To 13.07% In Jan From 17.05% On Vegetable Rates TIMES NEWS NETWORK New Delhi: Food inflation eased to a 7-week low in January on the back of moderating vegetable and onion prices but economists said some pressure on prices is expected to remain in the weeks ahead. Data released by the commerce and industry ministry on Thursday showed the food price index rose 13.07% in the year to January 29, slowing nearly 4 percentage points from the previous week’s 17.05%.     Finance minister Pranab Mukherjee said the decline in food and primary articles inflation for the week ending January 29, 2011 was welcome but there was a need to remain vigilant. He said he would not like to over-interpret the weekly data. Economists said food inflation was expected to ease in the coming weeks and would settle around 8-9% but pressure would still remain.     “Food prices will moderate as supplies improve but it will not be in the comfort zone of policymakers,” N R Bhanumurthy, economist at the National Institute of Public Finance and Policy, said. The government has pumped in supplies of onions and also imported the commodity from Pakistan to ease prices at home. Bhanumurthy also said overall inflation as measured by the wholesale price index was expected to remain sticky and supply bottlenecks still remained while input prices had gone up.     The Reserve Bank of India has consistently cautioned about inflationary pressures in the economy and has raised interest rates seven times since March 2010. Overall inflation rose to 8.43% in December, rising from 7.48% in November. Food grain production for 2010-11 is seen at 232.07 million tonnes, against 218.2 million tonnes in the previous year. Wheat production is expected to be 81.47 million tonnes in 2010-11 while pulses and cotton production are expected to be 16.51 million tonnes and 33.9 million bales, respectively. Analyst said robust food production would help moderate food prices in the months ahead.     The index for food articles group declined by 2.8% to 186.9 from 192.2 for the previous week.
Jan headline inflation seen in 8-8.2% range Surojit Gupta & Sidhartha TNN New Delhi: Headline inflation in January is unlikely to moderate significantly as policymakers had expected and is likely to be in the 8% to 8.2% range, sources said on Friday. The government will release the overall inflation data for January on Monday and sources said the high food prices will have a huge impact.     “We were expecting it to be around 7%-7.5%, but it is unlikely that we will be anywhere near that. Food prices have remained high and it will impact the overall numbers,” said a source. Inflation, as measured by the wholesale price index, rose to 8.43% in December, rising from the 7.48% in November. Food inflation shot up to 18.32% in late December and remained above 15% for a significant part of January on the back of high onion, fruit and vegetable prices.     A Bloomberg poll of economists has estimated that inflation will moderate to 8.1%, while Reuters has estimated it to be 8.05% in January. Latest data showed that food inflation eased to a seven-week low of 13.07% in end-January but sources said it was unlikely to have any dramatic impact on the overall headline inflation number for January.     “If vegetable prices remain moderate in the first two weeks of February, then may be, we can expect to close the year with 7% inflation,’’ said an official. At the same time, sources said it could be a tough target to achieve. The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) has raised its end-March inflation estimate to 7% from the previous 5.5% as inflationary expectations have intensified.     The government and RBI have taken several steps to calm inflation but it has remained sticky.
Centre likely to lift onion export ban Union Govt Considering Chavan’s Request New Delhi: The Centre is considering “at the highest level” a request from Maharashtra chief minister Prithviraj Chavan to lift the export ban on onions, which has seen a crash in prices, triggering protests by farmers.     “The government is giving its attention at the highest level to what has been said by the Maharashtra chief minister and Union agriculture minister (Sharad Pawar),” commerce and industry minister Anand Sharma said here on Friday.     Facing protests from growers in Nashik, Chavan spoke to Sharma on Thursday night, seeking reversal of the Centre’s decision to ban the export of onions.     Pawar, a member of the empowered group of ministers (eGoM) on food, has also sought lifting of the ban and restrictions on the export of onion and sugar, respectively. Sharma said the eGoM would review the matter.     The ministers’ panel, headed by Union finance minister Pranab Mukherjee, has allowed two varieties of onions for export.     Onion prices, which had touched Rs 85 per kg at the retail level (Rs 60-70 per kg in wholesale), have fallen to Rs 4-5 a kg in mandis in Maharashtra. It is now selling at Rs 20-25 a kg at the retail level.     “Chavan spoke to me and subsequently wrote to us... I discussed it with the finance minister, who is chairman of the eGoM,” Sharma said.     On Wednesday, hundreds of farmers in Nashik took to the streets and blocked the Mumbai-Agra highway to protest against the fall in onion prices after exports were banned.     Sharma said that there were many steps to help the farmers. “State and national federations can step in to make purchases at better prices so that farmers do not suffer,”he said. PTI BJP joins the chorus against ban Mumbai: State BJP general secretary and member of Parliament Raosaheb Danve on Friday demanded that the Union government lift the ban on onion exports immediately as farmers were suffering heavily due to price fluctuations.     While consumers continue to suffer due to high prices, farmers are forced to sell onions at throwaway prices in Nashik, Pune, Satara and Ahmednagar, where onions are grown in large quantities. Danve alleged that due to the state and Union governments’ apathy, farmers were facing a “difficult situation”. While farmers were suffering, middlemen were making huge profits, he said. He said the authorities were not lifting the ban for the middlemen and traders to benefit in both conditions–when onions are in plenty as well as when scarce. Union agriculture minister Sharad Pawar declined to comment on the situation. — Prakash Joshi
Onions down to 12 per kilo Tomatoes, Brinjal & Other Fresh Produce More Affordable Bella Jaisinghani TNN     Shoppers in the city’s vegetable bazaars were wondering if they had stepped into a film set on Friday as vendors were calling out affordable prices for fresh produce. The biggest and most pleasant surprise was the cost of onions that were retailing at Rs 12 -15 per kg after touching highs of Rs 60 over the last few tumultuous months.     Tomatoes were selling for Rs 12 in retail markets as against the winter average of Rs 10, but Mumbaikars were not complaining given that it was a high Rs 60 till January. One exuberant shopper made off with four kilos of onions and tomatoes for her family of three fearing that the drop in prices is a temporary reprieve. “Just last weekend, onions were selling for Rs 22 per kg. I can’t believe it,” she said.     Besides tomatoes and onions, prices of other popular produce such as cauliflower, brinjal green peas, cabbage and carrots have eased considerably over the last two weeks. Green peas were available for a throwaway rate of Rs 15 per kg, a far cry from the highs of 2009-10. “For nearly a year, green peas cost Rs 120-160, and even so, were sometimes not available for love or money,” said Darshana Kajle, her cart laden with healthy pods. “Now the prices are stabilizing.     In another interesting development, brinjal of all varieties be it the small striped kind or the large ‘bhartha’ favourite, sold for Rs 20, down from Rs 40 last month. Punjabi housewives, unable to determine the day’s menu in the face of such temptation, indulged themselves by picking up several varieties.     Cauliflower was selling at Rs 15 per kg. Last weekend, however, prices had dropped to as low as Rs 8. At the Anderhi municipal market, for instance, vendors obligingly offered stunned shoppers two kilos of cauliflower for Rs 15. “I did not require such a large quantity but I was unable to resist the look and the price of the fresh produce,” said Andheri resident Aditya Sahni. “Just last week, my wife bought cauliflower for Rs 10 and we thought we had got our best deal ever.”     By Friday the flower had bounced back to Rs 15. Vendors also cautioned shoppers and said that as winter draws to a close the ‘golden period’ is slowly coming to an end. “Now prices may increase by a few rupees with the onset of summer,” said a retailer at Andheri market. Co-ops to decide on milk price on Monday M umbaikars may have to brace themselves for costlier milk as cooperatives will take a decision on pricing on Monday. Milk will become dearer by Rs 3 per litre in Pune and parts of Maharashtra from February 16. But the Gujarat Cooperative Milk Marketing Federation, which markets Amul, has opposed the move by the government to increase milk prices uniformly across the state. GCMMF is unlikely to raise prices, sources told TOI.
NEWS DIGEST Indian players insured for 2.3 crore each The BCCI has taken a personal accident policy worth $500,000 for every member of the Indian World Cup team. It has also taken a Rs 130-crore insurance cover against losses in case of a match being hit by bad weather. P 9 Coming soon: Car number portability From next week, you will be able to retain the number plate of your car for a lifetime after paying a one-time premium of Rs 10,000. Meanwhile, driving licences will soon be delivered at your doorstep by post. P 2 Davis charged with murder, US furious The US on Friday threatened to snap diplomatic ties with Pakistan after the Lahore police charged its embassy official Raymond Davis with the “cold-blooded murder” of two Pakistanis. P 24 State creates blood collection record Maharashtra has zoomed to the top spot in blood collection in the country, with 12.63 lakh being donated in 2010. P 5 Assange public enemy No. 1, says Sweden PM Swedish PM Fredrik Reinfeldt has dubbed WikiLeaks founder Julian Assange the “public enemy number one in Sweden”, where he faces sex assault charges. P 24 Veggie prices tumble 50% in a week Price of fresh produce has dropped by nearly 50% with onions retailing at Rs 12-15 per kg. Tomatoes are going for Rs 12. The biggest surprise is brinjal, which now costs just Rs 20/kg. P 2 Abortion only on hakim’s advice: Darul The Darul Uloom Deoband has issued a new fatwa, saying a woman can terminate a pregnancy only on the advice of a hakim. P 17 Editor of ‘Sholay’ languishes in Dharavi M S Shinde, the man who edited blockbusters like S h o l a y, S e e t a A u r G e e t a and S a g a r is now languishing in Dharavi. P 2 State govt to revisit Whistling Woods deal The state will review the handing over of a 20-acre plot at Goregaon Film City to film maker Subhash Ghai. P 7 
Graded bags in local mkts from Tuesday Bella Jaisinghani TNN Mumbai: Following pressure to bring a semblance of fair play into onion procurement, traders at APMC’s Lasalgaon mandi in Nashik will accept graded produce in bags from Tuesday. Farmers currently sell onions loose by carting them in huge trolleys and are paid arbitrary sums for each.     “Beginning February 15, farmers will be allowed to bag their onions according to category and size rather than bringing them in open trolleys and selling each lot at the whims and fancies of the buyers. This will put paid to the custom of selling loose onions ,’’ says Virendra Singh, chairman of the National Cooperative Consumers’ Federation of India, a government federation of consumer cooperatives.     On January 22, TOI reported how middlemen at Lasalgaon mandi purchase large volumes of low-quality onions at a cheap price and mix them with small amounts of robust ones to sell them all at a higher rate.     Grading and bagging the harvest at source has multiple advantages. “Farmers are seldom paid for the full quintal they sell. Middlemen reimburse them for only 98 kg, dismissing two kg as spoilt produce,’’ says an expert. “Now they are more likely to get a fair price.’’ Besides traders can no longer hoard stock under the pretext of drying or grading and packaging onions.     Consumers who prefer certain onions will benefit. Kolkata for instance prefers small bulbs while south and north India choose bigger varieties.
Industry wants change in APMC Act Bella Jaisinghani TNN Mumbai: Farmers angry over plummeting wholesale prices continued their strike at the APMC’s Lasalgaon onion mandi. The strike began last week as rates fell to Rs 2 per kg (Rs 200 per quintal). Alongwith APMC traders, they demanded India resume onion exports arguing it will fetch them a better price. Experts however say the situation could have been avoided if farmers could sell in the open market.     The clamour is growing to abolish or amend the monopolistic APMC Act that fuelled the onion crisis. The Act forces farmers to sell perishables only to a limited number of licenced traders at APMC mandis, thereby encouraging cartelisation in agriculture marketing. The Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce & Industry (Ficci) has been campaigning for growers to be allowed to sell their crops to any trader or company that offers a better price. Ficci director general Rajiv Kumar said, “You can’t have a situation where farmers must either sell to a limited colluding set of buyers or return with their produce. This APMC cartel is shortchanging farmers and driving up retail prices.’’     APMC officials are on the defensive. “The Act does not require any amendment,” says Ashok Walunj, head of the onion-potato market at Vashi APMC. “Trade cannot survive without middlemen. Were it not for us, the farmers would not be paid a fair price for their goods. Exports should be resumed so they can get a better price.” The ratio of price rise from farmer to consumer is 1:4, which means the grower and the end consumer are cheated most. “Transportation cost is not more than Rs 4-5 per kg for any food item in the country,’’ says another Ficci official. “But we have been paying Rs 70-80 per kg for onions in the retail market compared to wholesale rate of Rs 30-35 at APMC mandis in production zones. Why not let the farmer sell directly at Rs 40?’’ “Powerful traders at each mandi work in close proximity with politicians, so even states where the Act has been amended fail to show results,’’ says an expert. Chairman of the National Cooperative Consumers’ Federation Virendra Singh said, “Even farmers who sell outside the APMC yard and do not use its facilities are charged a fee. This can’t be justified.’’
Traders cry over onion licences Exporters Fear Crops May Perish, High Minimum Price Cause For Concern Bella Jaisinghani TNN     The Centre will take a decision in a day or two on completely lifting the onion export ban, but the fineprint in last week’s partial concession for the Karnataka-grown rose onions has created more concern for now. Not only has the commerce ministry fixed extraordinarily high minimum prices for onion exports but also made licences mandatory for every consignment.     While farmers at the onion mandi in Lasalgaon, Nashik, await the nod to export their produce again, they may face the prospect of seeing the tuber perish while traders wait for the licence. The commerce ministry on Friday issued a notification permitting farmers in south India to send the rose onion — a variety hardly consumed in India — abroad. However,they will need to apply to the Directorate General of Foreign Trade seeking licences for every consignment, a process that could take up to two months.     “We need to resume exports, particularly from Maharashtra, so that farmers get the right price for their produce,” says NCCF chairman Virendra Singh. “However, the decision to bring onions into the licence raj will backfire as will the inordinately high minimum export price that has been set now.”     Earlier, traders would seek a no-objection certificate from the NCCF and National Agricultural Cooperative Marketing Federation (Nafed). The NoC would be granted immediately and the consignment dispatched in a day or two. Moreover, the minimum export price (MEP) of onions was around $ 500-1,000 per metric tonne (mt) depending on the variety. However, the commerce ministry has fixed a rate of $ 1,400 per mt for rose onion, a cost experts fear no buyer will pay. “This rate was fixed by the ministry of consumer affairs when onions hit Rs 80 in retail markets and it wanted to discourage exports to ease local availability and pricing,” says Singh. “It would be impractical to restore that rate if you want to resume or encourage exports.” Experts add the red-tapism that will creep in with mandatory licences will cause delay and distress to farmers and exporters. “The commerce ministry has pushed onions, which are perishable, into the category of nonperishables like industrial goods, cotton and sugar,” they say. “Which buyer will wait for its consignment for two months while the DGFT processes your application?” they asked. Commerce minister Anand Sharma could not be reached.
NEWS DIGEST Retd cop from Thane dies in e-way mishap A retired policeman died and three people, including his grandson—all from Thane—were injured in a car crash on the Mumbai-Pune Expressway on Sunday. P 2 One killed, three hurt in Sewri scrapyard blast A labourer was charred to death and three others suffered serious burns when a gas cylinder exploded at a scrapyard in Sewri on Saturday. P 3 UNSC speech gaffe no big deal, says Krishna After reading from the Portuguese foreign minister’s speech at the UNSC, external affairs minister S M Krishna said “there was nothing wrong in it”. P 11 India may send panel to question Headley, wife India may send a commission to the US to get evidence from LeT terrorist David Headley and his wife. A chargesheet may also be filed against Headley soon. P 10 Licence needed to export onions: Govt The commerce ministry has fixed high minimum prices and made licences mandatory for onion exports. P 2 Fire breaks out in Worli, no casualties reported A fire broke out in the basement of RPG House on E Moses Road in Worli around 10.30 pm on Sunday. Eight fire engines were rushed in. There were no casualties.
Govt lifts ban on onion exports as prices drop TIMES NEWS NETWORK New Delhi: The government on Thursday decided to lift the ban on onion export following a steep fall in domestic prices that resulted in protests from farmers and Maharashtra politicians. The decision was taken by the empowered group of ministers (EGoM) on food, headed by finance minister Pranab Mukherjee, though an official notification is still awaited.     But as a precautionary measure against the possibility of prices shooting up again, the EGoM decided to allow shipments of onions at a Minimum Export Price (MEP) of $600 (about Rs 28,000) a tonne, a senior government official said.     The ministerial panel met in the absence of agricultural minister Sharad Pawar, food minister K V Thomas and commerce minister Anand Sharma. The meeting was attended by defence minister A K Antony, home minister P Chidambaram and deputy chairman of Planning Commission Montek Singh Ahluwalia. An official of agricultural cooperative Nafed, which used to regulate onion exports, said the restriction on exports by MEP of $600 per tonne would not encourage overseas shipments.     The government had banned onion exports in December 2010 to augment domestic supply and contain rising onion prices, which had touched Rs 70-80 per kg. The measure, along with action against hoarders and arrival of fresh crop, led to crash in prices to Rs 4-12 kg in the wholesale market, leading to protests in Nashik and other growing areas of Maharashtra.
Food inflation eases to 2-mth low in early Feb Cheaper Veggies Stall Rising Prices | Mkts Gain For 5th Straight Day TIMES NEWS NETWORK New Delhi: Food inflation eased in early February as supplies of vegetables improved, bringing relief to policymakers who have been battling criticism over soaring prices.     Commerce ministry data released on Thursday showed the food price index rose 11.05% in the year to February 5, slowing from the previous week’s 13.07%. Food inflation had shot up to 18.32% in late December and stayed above 15% for a significant period but has moderated since late January as supplies improved. Spiralling onion and vegetable prices had contributed signficantly to the sharp increase in food inflation.     Economists said that despite the moderation in the past two weeks, pressure remained and there was a need to closely monitor food prices in the weeks ahead.     “Even as primary articles’ inflation has moderated, there are still risks due to the global conditions of supply- demand mismatch,” said Indranil Pan, chief economist at Kotak Mahindra Bank.     “The current week’s food inflation numbers are lower due to a significant dip in vegetable prices that might not sustain in coming weeks,” he added.     FM Pranab Mukherjee said the sharp moderation in food inflation should help overall inflation to come down in the next two months. Policymakers have been forced to change their year-end inflation estimates as prices remained stubborn. Inflation stood at 8.23% in January.
‘Control volume of onion export or local market may cry again’ Experts Warn Govt After Ban Is Lifted Bella Jaisinghani TNN Mumbai: Even as they welcomed the government’s decision to resume onion export in the interest of farmers, experts in agricultural marketing warned the authorities to keep tabs on the volume of export so that supplies did not dwindle in the local markets that might trigger another round of price rise.     On Thursday, the Union ministry of commerce lifted the two-month-long nationwide ban on onion export, freeing the essential commodity on the request of farmers from Lasalgaon, Nashik, the largest producing market in the country. Last week, farmers refused to sell their produce and even forced the Lasalgaon APMC market to close when prices dipped to Rs 2 per kg (Rs 200 per quintal or 100 kg). On average, APMC traders pay farmers Rs 3-10 per kg, while the bulb costs Rs 12-15 per kg in retail market.     Both traders and farmers had urged the government to lift the ban, imposed on export on December 2010, saying there was a surfeit of onion in the local market since the bumper harvest of mid-January. They said farmers would only earn a fair price once volumes were diverted outside the country. “Lifting the ban on exports is a timely action that will benefit growers,” said Virendra Singh, chairman of the National Cooperative Consumers’ Federation (NCCF), the apex federation of consumer cooperatives in the country.     However, experts cautioned that the government must allow limited volumes for dispatch outside so that local markets did not face shortage. “Only in the past week have onion prices normalized to Rs 12-15 in retail bazaars,” said an observer. “The export quota must be judiciously regulated so that traders cannot cite this as a reason for shortfall. If that happens, we could again see a price rise even before the dust settles on this one.” For a start, the government has fixed a minimum export price (MEP) of USD 600 per metric tonne (mt), a little higher than the average rate of USD 500-525 per mt. “This is done to prevent a rush of exports in the initial period. The MEP is reviewed every month and may be reduced if retail prices stabilize,” Singh said. It remains to be seen if exporters will be asked to seek a licence for each consignment from the Directorate General of Foreign Trade (DGFT). Last week, the commerce ministry freed the rose onion, a variety grown in south India, for export on condition that the traders would procure a licence for each lot. The licence takes up to two months to procure while onions perish within a few days.
Govt bans milk powder exports to cool prices TNN & AGENCIES New Delhi: The government on Friday banned milk powder and casein exports in a bid to calm price pressures.     Milk prices have shot up in recent weeks both at the retail and wholesale level and have contributed significantly to soaring food inflation. Food inflation in the year to February 5 stood at 11.05%. Spiralling food prices have remained a policy headache for the government. India is the world’s largest milk producer. The ban on exports is effective immediately and would be in place until further orders, the commerce ministry said.     “The export of milk powders (including skimmed milk powder, whole milk powder, dairy whitener and infant milk foods), casein and casein products has been prohibited,” the Directorate General of Foreign Trade (DGFT) said.     The move to ban export of milk powder follows a meeting of the panel of ministers which met on Thursday to review the price situation. The government last month had withdrawn export incentives on these products. India exported milk powder and casein worth Rs 500 crore in the last fiscal. The DGFT also said onion exports are allowed through state trading enterprises (STEs). “The export of onions is now allowed through STEs subject to applicable minimum export price (MEP) depending upon the variety of onions,” it said.
S N A P J U D G M E N T
Living the dream It’s never too late for the perfect job Gopinath Mavinkurve     At last, a dream job offer! "You have a job offer! Would you like to be a police officer? Please click on the link below," said an email from an old friend. A dream job, what with all that i could collect including the royal salutes i would get, i thought. But who would offer someone on the wrong side of 50 a job in the police force, i wondered? Had my old friend married the police chief's daughter, i tried to recollect – and in any case, why would my friend who had not bothered to keep in touch all these years except for a friend request on a social networking site, want to pass on this opportunity to me?     Never mind, i told myself – if he had such a lucrative offer for me, it was for me to grab it and enjoy the good times that come along with it, not to question it to extinction. I would begin my day with the kanda-poha at the 'zunka bhakar' stall, which incidentally did not sell any zunka-bhakar. I could now amble into the closest sabzi mandi and the vendors squatting there would hand over a bunch of the green veggies – all for free! All the farm produce would be my privilege, although out of reach for the common man on the street – real farm produce, mind you, the stuff which we sit down to at lunch and relish, not the colourful, exotic ones on Farmville. Then i would be entitled to my pav-bhaji at the street corner vendor who had put up his stall in the middle of the road flouting all urban rules. Several 'chai-paani's awaited me!     Being a cop, i would no more be the aam admi reeling under the burden of the spiralling food price index that stoked the inflation fire in our country. I     would be khaas – not aam! No more meaningless ranting about rising prices on my blog – just do the daily beats around town and find your choicest picks for your family's living needs. I was elated. I had always regretted not having chosen the enviable IRS or IAS career options at the appropriate juncture in my career. It could've been a great life if i had, what with plum postings and lucrative inflows guaranteed to come my way, which was assured once i was deeply ensconced in the bureaucratic race.     I even convinced myself about how i was cut out for the job – being suspicious in nature, i was not the kind to fall into the trap of the several forms of windfalls – of millions of dollars and pounds to be claimed – by way of inheritance, lotteries or for simply being the claimant of my email account, which i was often informed to be a lucky one. Never the easy pawn for such clever trappings, one had always avoided responding to such spurious offers.     One had also been wiser by the steady advice from friends which warned me about the perils of clicking on files with bizarre sounding titles like 'Black President in the White House' or any other enticing titles. But this was a lucrative job offer!     So what was i waiting for when life's greatest opportunity was a knock, er, a click away? Click! A new window opened up to Citiville, another game on the social networking site, Facebook, on the lines of Farmville and Fishville. "Allow access?" it asked me, when, thankfully, realisation dawned upon me – that i would have to make do with the onions without stench and live on that Farmville produce, and bid goodbye to the moolis and the moolah i was dreaming about!
Pawar faces fire for rising prices New Delhi: The government came under fresh fire on price rise in the Lok Sabha on Tuesday with MPs criticizing the Centre for failing to protect farmer interests irrespective of whether retail rates were high or low.     Agriculture minister Sharad Pawar found himself at the receiving end and Congress benches sat in an uncomfortable silence as opposition MPs argued that consumers were burdened with a rising kitchen budget and returns to farmers remained meagre.     Pawar’s statement that wholesale onion prices had crashed to Rs 200 a quintal from a high of Rs 3,800 a quintal was seized upon by the opposition with MPs questioning how wholesale rates had moved in such a fashion in just 40 days. The government failed to cope with the crisis, they said.     The agriculture minister said the export ban on onions was lifted to help farmers get a good price but countered opposition arguments by saying the government could not stock vegetables the way it does rice, wheat and pulses.     The Congress’s Keshava Rao pitched in to ensure the anti-price rise sentiment did not remain the opposition’s prerogative and demanded that farmers be extended credit at 3% interest. Pawar responded by saying he would be delighted to do so and indicated the appeal ought to be directed at the Congress leadership.     The RJD’s Raghuvansh Prasad set the tone with a skilful intervention where he dwelt at length on the hardships caused by food inflation and took a dig at responses of ministers that have ranged from statements like “I am not an astrologer” and “We don’t have an Aladdin’s lamp.” TNN
PROMISES TO KEEP Millions face hunger pangs despite growth Subodh Varma TIMES INSIGHT GROUP     Although finance minister Pranab Mukherjee had promised food security and inclusive growth in his budget speech last year, hunger continues to stalk over 300 million citizens. India slipped to 67th place among 122 countries in the Global Hunger Index 2010 prepared by International Food Policy Research Institute. An Oxford University report said 410 million Indians live in poverty. While there may be nitpicking over the actual numbers, one thing is clear — there is widespread, if not alarming, hunger and malnutrition despite a high growth trajectory.     The situation worsened in the past year with vegetable prices zooming up by over 24%. Since March last year, potato prices rose by over 75% and onion rocketed up by a jaw-dropping 300% for a few months pushing these vegetables out reach of large sections of people. Inflation had become a vehicle for sustaining malnutrition and hunger in the country.     Yet, the government continues to drag its feet on crucial measures as providing cheap food grain to the people, according to a study by the Centre for Budget and Governance Accountability (CBGA), a Delhi think-tank. The single biggest step that could reduce hunger and bring down prices—universalisation of the public distribution system—has been stuck in wrangling between policy wonks.     The CBGA study points out that providing cheap wheat and rice to about 24 crore households would cost the exchequer Rs 1,44,141 crore. The government is already spending Rs 55,578 crore on providing food subsidies as per 2010-11 budget estimates. So, the net additional cost would be Rs 88,563 crore per year. Many economists argue that India can ill afford such huge amounts on food subsidies. But calling such arguments “unsubstantiated”, the CBGA said food subsidies amount to less than 1% of India’s GDP and less than 4% of the combined expenditure incurred by state governments and Union government annually.     “Financial constraints can never be an excuse for denying the basic needs of the masses, and even less so when the government is prepared to forego tax revenue (as exemptions and deductions in both direct and indirect taxes) to the extent of Rs.5,02,299 crore for a single fiscal year (2009-10),” says the CBGA study.     The argument that there is not enough foodgrain to distribute to all the people too comes in for criticism. As per the Second Advance Estimates released on 12 February 2010, the procurement of wheat and rice was 253.9 lakh tonnes and 236.9 lakh tonnes respectively last year, which accounted for only about 23% of the total food production. Universal public distribution would involve procurement of 1,008 lakh tonnes of foodgrain. Enhancing the procurement levels can easily do this, the study says.     Last year in August, the Supreme Court had directed that 17.8 million tonnes of grain in danger of rotting in government godowns should be distributed to the people. This was after there were reports that 67,000 tonnes of wheat had been spoiled in the rainy season due to insufficient protection in godowns. Such tragic waste could be avoided if the government were to streamline the PDS, plug leakage and build infrastructure to deal with storage and transportation.
‘BUDGET MUST STEM PRICE RISE’ Weighed Down By Rising Food Costs For The Fourth Year Running, Mumbaikars Hope For Some Relief From The Centre Bella Jaisinghani TNN     Amidst the ‘Great Indian Growth Story’, it is the simple aspiration of r o t i, k a p d a and m a k a a n that make the wish-list of the common citizen on the eve of Budget 2011. Weighed down by rising food costs for the fourth year running, Mumbaikars are clamouring for relief from the annual budget that is to be presented in Parliament on Monday.     Although the price of certain vegetables plateaued out mid-January, the unpredictable spike of last year is still an unsavoury memory. Onion, vegetables and dal may have made headlines in 2010 for hitting all-time highs of Rs 60-100 per kg, but equally, not one item of consumption has remained outside the ambit of inflation. The cost of fuel, milk and cooking oil escalated three or four times in the past year. Land scams surfaced by the score even as housing has become unattainable for salaried employees.     Mumbaikars hope that Budget 2011 will not add to their woes in terms of taxation or further subsidy cuts on fuel. “Earlier the country was ruled by one king, now all MPs are Rajas,’’ says 22-year-old fashion designer Afreen Khan. “Last year’s decontrol of fuel prices led to four hikes in 2010-11, causing a snowball effect on food prices that were already at an all-time high. I hope the government does not take another policy decision that will jeopardize the salaried middle class.’’     Afreen’s father Aftab Ahmed Khan, a leading poultry supplier, says it is the vast middle class electorate that is affected most. “The poor live with deprivation while the rich are untouched by inflation. It is the middle class, which wants its chil-     to eat well and be educated, live in good homes and maintain its social standing that is bearing the brunt of price rise,’’ he says. dren     In 2009, recession and a fresh general election led art director Manoj Govekar to craft a replica of Parliament House for a Ganpati mandal, expressing the hope of a better tomorrow. “Instead, inflation only got worse and so many scams surfaced in 2010,’’ says the artisan who witnessed several mandals compromise their Ganeshotsav celebrations last year. “The government should take the opportunity of Budget 2011 to reduce the tax burden and ensure that food and housing become accessible to the tax-paying citizen.’’     Over in Elephanta Island—10 km from Mumbai—the four villages that contribute lakhs of dollars from tourism will be relieved the day the government decides to provide basic electricity. “It is we who contribute foreign exchange worth crores that goes towards formulating the annual budget. But for the last 32 years, we have only received an annual promise of electrification. I hope it happens during my lifetime,’’ says deputy sarpanch Rajendra Padte.
What’s your number? Greed is an unbearable limitlessness of being Prashant Agrawal     ‘What’s your number?’ is a common question at business schools. Before anyone has any illicit thoughts, the number refers to how much money you need to retire. The question, rephrased, being: how long does one have to slog at a consultancy, hedge fund, private equity or investment bank before retiring.     Depending on the person, the answer ranges. Some will say 10 crore and a house. The 10 crore provide 50 lakh a year in interest to pay for living expenses. That would allow good food, a nice car, some help and education for the children. For others, 10 crore will be too little; they need 50 crore and two houses, the second being a summer house in Goa or the hills. Spending per year would be more along the lines of two crore. This would lead to nice business-class travel to foreign locales, shopping, meals at Michelin star restaurants and education for the children at the best schools. Of course, there are the super extravagant needing 100 crore. That gets a supersize lifestyle with all the fixtures.     It’s a fun, late-night conversation that happens over beer. Pankaj Mishra and Arundhati Roy would be aghast, but the business school students mean no harm. They’re just daydreaming. The question, though, is how these conversations go in Parliament or state legislatures. Do MPs, MLAs or ministers sit back and discuss their “number” to retire?     Is it 100 crore, 200 crore or 500 crore? How much money does one need, not to lead just a good life in India, but an extravagant one? Take 50 crore for a magnificent mansion. Add two lakh for food each month (the price of onions has gone up), five lakh for travel (petrol is getting dearer), two lakh for help (must treat the people right), one lakh for electronics (ironically, telecom prices are going up), another two lakh for education (you have to care for your future) and     another four lakh for miscellaneous expenses. That adds up to 16 lakh a month or two crore a year. Take a normal lifespan of another 50 years and you get a 100 crore. Add another 100 crore for inflation. That’s 250 crore: $60 million.     Let’s nearly double that to $100 million. Is that a number that would satisfy politicians? It seems not. The numbers from the 2G scam, the land scams, the defence scams, the Isro scam, the sports scams etc, all suggest that our politicians don’t have a number. There seems to be no limit to their appetite. And that makes no sense.     The average Indian will earn less than a lakh this year. One lakh. To earn 100 crore will take 10,000 years or 100 lifetimes. An average Indian would have been able to discuss Manu’s laws with the man himself, sit under the banyan tree with Buddha, marvel at the making of the Asoka pillar, contemplate God at the Sun Temple as it was made, dine with Akbar, serve as a scribe to Tulsidas, fight the British in 1857, mourn the martyrs of Jallianwala Bagh, march with Gandhi, hear Nehru’s Tryst with Destiny speech, shake a leg with Amitabh Bachchan, and witness India’s World Cup victory in 1983 and 2011 (about to happen). Yet, the average Indian, earning an average Indian salary, would not be able to earn as much as some netas have earned in a single deal in 2010.     There has to be one politician who is full up, who has had his full share of cash and said enough: “Now, dear countrymen, i am full. I want to put all my efforts into helping the people without recompense.” There has to be a number that politicians reach where they say this. Maybe those MBA students can help us figure out what that number is?
GARLIC DIPS BY 80%, VEGGIES HIT NEW LOWS Trip To Market Brings Smiles As Prices Drop To Pre-Inflation Levels Bella Jaisinghani | TNN Mumbai: Each subsequent crop harvested since Makar Sankranti seems to bring glad tidings to the Indian consumer wearied by battling price rise. Marking another pleasant turnaround since the bumper crop of onion was harvested mid-January, the cost of a few essential food items has been restored to pre-inflation levels.     Garlic has dropped from the astronomical Rs 250-300 per kg to Rs 50-60 while onion and tomato have stabilised at Rs 10-15 per kg. Eggs are four rupees cheaper than the average rate of Rs 44, having settled at Rs 40 in the last fortnight.     Bringing long-awaited relief to vegetarians and meat-eaters alike, garlic, which rose to Rs 350-400 last June-July and has remained an aspirational item since then, has finally normalized at pre-inflation levels of Rs 50-60 per kg. Large carts laden with white pods are seen outside railway stations like Jogeshwari. “Last year the crop failed in many parts of the country. This year, though, we have reaped an excellent harvest mid-February so the price of garlic has normalized,” said Mahek Shah of the Chillies and Garlic Commission in     Navi Mumbai. Shah does not expect another crisis situation this year. “In the first week of January, the cost of eggs had touched an all-time high of Rs 48 per dozen,” says Albert D’souza, manager of Home Pride bakery in Andheri. “In early February the price dipped to Rs 44 and over the last 15 days, the cost has come down to Rs 40.”     Aftab Ahmed Khan, chairman of the Mumbai Egg Traders Association, says that demand has lowered with the passing of winter. He however cautions that another imminent agitation over Telangana in egg-producing Andhra Pradesh could negatively impact prices once more.     Meanwhile, despite the fact that winter has ebbed the gold rush continues as far as cauliflower, cabbage, green peas and green leafy vegetables are concerned. Borivli housewife Charulata Dasgupta was happy to find cauliflower selling for Rs 8 per kg on We d n e s d ay, which indeed is the lowest marker in m a ny years. “One e x p e c t s prices to reduce during winter, which is boomtime for fresh cheap produce, but this year the rationalization took a long time coming. I was happy to see cabbage selling for Rs 10. Vendors were calling out six oranges for Rs 10, which is bargain price,” she said. “Grapes, which ordinarily cost up to Rs 100 per kg at this time of the year, are available for Rs 50. May the good run continue.’’     The biggest relief, however, has come with the long-overdue restoration of onion and     tomato, both of which     are selling for Rs 10-15     per kg in the retail     market.
NEWS DIGEST Falling prices bring more food on plates The mid-January bumper harvest has brought down onion and tomato prices to Rs 10-15/kg and garlic to Rs 50-60. While eggs now come at a cheaper Rs 40/dozen, cauliflower and cabbage cost just Rs 10 a kg. P 3 Dharavi redevpt may finally see light of day Putting the Dharavi redevelopment plan on fast track, the state may allow Mhada to develop one sector and invite private bids for the other four. P 5 School teachers must work 45 hours a week Teachers should spend 45 hours at work each week, according to the state’s norms for the Right to Education Act. P 7 Barber gets . 2.5 lakh in . 100-crore wedding A Delhi-based Gujjar couple has tied the knot in a Rs 100-crore extravaganza. While the groom will get a Rs 33-crore chopper, barbers have earned up to Rs 2.5 lakh each. P 13 Andheri woman killed in Goa highway mishap A city woman was among two persons killed when a city-bound Volvo bus from Ratnagiri skidded off the road at Lonere on the Mumbai-Goa highway in Raigad in the wee hours of Wednesday. P 12 SC relief for 3 babus in Pune land scam In a breather for three state bureaucrats, the Supreme Court on Tuesday stayed a Bombay high court order on criminal action and a CBI probe against them and 13 others in the Pune land scam. P 4 
Food inflation dips to 3-month low TIMES NEWS NETWORK New Delhi: Food inflation slowed to single digit in late February led by moderation in vegetable and onion prices as supplies improved on the back of robust harvest.     But economists said the RBI is likely to raise interest rates again in its upcoming policy review as overall prices continue to remain high.     The commerce and industry ministry data showed the food price index rose 9.52% in the year to February 26, slowing from the previous weeks 10.39%. This was the lowest food inflation in three months. Food prices led by onions and vegetables had shot up in late December and have remained high for 12 weeks despite moderation in the past few weeks.
J U G U L A R V E I N Glorious golmaal Total uncertainty of performance makes both our cricket and our sarkar exciting Jug Suraiya Will India win the World Cup like it did way back in 1983? Will it at least reach the finals? Will it reach the semis? OK, OK, will it for God’s sake manage to beat Burkina-Faso or will it get beaten by it, which would really be one hell of an upset because Burkina-Faso hasn’t put up a World Cup team and as far as anyone including Jagdish Dalmia knows doesn’t even play cricket?     Everyone in India is talking World Cup. And about how India will fare in it. Regarding which there seem to be as many opinions and points of view as there are people airing them. Because no one – not even the team members, including the captain, perhaps l e a s t of all the team members, including the captain – knows how the Indian team will perform.     That’s the great thing about the Indian cricket team. Not just this cricket team but all Indian cricket teams ever since they invented cricket, or invented teams. Indian cricketers are, and always have been, totally and completely and bafflingly unpredictable. One day they’ll play like world-class champs, as they did in 1983. The very next day – or maybe even on the very same day, if they’re doing overtime – they’ll play like world-class chumps who’d get themselves beaten to a pulp by the Mahjong Ladies Circle of West Yonkers.     Just suppose the Indian team showed consistent brilliance and won every match it played. How predictable it would all be. How boring. What would everyone have to talk about, speculate about, get into arguments about if one didn’t know, from moment to moment, from match to match, whether it was time to bring out the ladoos of celebration or the rotten tomatoes of derision and disdain?     By always keeping us guessing, the Indian cricket team brings unfailing and unflagging excitement into our lives. As does our equally unpredictable sarkar. It’s a moot point whether our cricket team learnt its unpredictability from our sarkar or if it was the other way round. But our sarkar, our government – not just this government but all governments that have gone before it and all the governments that will come after it – is and has been and always will be as unpredictable in its performance as our cricketers. If anything, even more so than our cricketers.     One minute our sarkar is telling us all about the 9% growth it’s about to achieve, and how our economy is going to overtake that of China’s before you can say Veg Manchurian. The next minute, or in the very same minute, we’re told how some elements of the same sarkar have scammed the country of hundreds of lakhs of crores. If the sarkari economy is growing at 9%, the scamkari economy seems to be growing at 90%, or 900%.     What’s true of the macro picture is even truer of the micro picture of our dayto-day lives and how they are governed – or rather misgoverned – by our sarkar. When will the lights next go off without warning leaving you literally in the dark about what’s happened to the bijli? When will the water tap suddenly go dry, making you go to school, office, kitty party all sweaty and unwashed? What will be the price of onions when you go to the bazaar to buy them? When will the Grand Canyon disguised as a pothole on the road outside your house get repaired? No one knows the answers to these and a million such questions. Least of all the sarkar.     And it’s all these unanswered – unanswerable? – questions that give us so much to talk and argue about, to get excited and het up about. Suppose we lived in a country like Singapore, or Switzerland, which worked with clockwork precision and where everything was tickety-boo the whole time. How monotonously dull and boring it would be. But thanks to our unpredictable sarkar, we are saved from this fate worse than dearth.     So, will India win the World Cup? It already has. The World Cup of unpredictable excitement and chaos if not that of cricket. Howzzat!     jug.suraiya@timesgroup.com     http://blogs.timesofindia.indiatimes.com/jugglebandhi/ 
MONEYLINE: SURVEY HIGHLIGHTS Debt rises by 14% The state’s overall debt is set to increase to Rs 2.09 lakh crore at the end of the current financial year from Rs 1.83 lakh crore last year – that’s a nearly 14% increase.     However, chief minister Prithviraj Chavan said that the Centre has restricted a state’s debt to 26.1% of the Gross State Domestic Product (GSDP) and Maharashtra falls within the limit. “Maharashtra’s debt is around 23.68% of the GSDP, which is well within limits. Besides, most of the loans have been taken from the Centre itself,” he said.     The state’s economic survey states that though the amount of interest payments have been steadily increasing from 2006-07 to 2010-11, the average cost of borrowings have declined from 9.7% in 2007-08 to 9% in 2010-11. For the current financial year, the interest payment is around Rs 16,469 crore. Mhada’s star dims The Maharashtra Housing Area Development Authority (MHADA) had aimed to construct 21,322 dwelling units across the state for the year 2010-11, but     till October last year only 249 units had been completed. Cidco, however, has undertaken the construction of 1,344 tenements in Navi Mumbai, Aurangabad, Nashik and Nanded.     The construction of affordable housing saw a marked increase in 2009-10 since the inception of MHADA. In one year, the authority had constructed 13,803 housing units across Maharashtra. In Mumbai, 6,452 units were constructed for the low-income group, 1,652 for economically weaker sections, 196 for the middle-income group, and 306 for high-income group. The authority redeveloped 619 units. The National Sample Survey on housing conditions, found that 64% rural and 93% urban households had puccadwellings. Expensive year for the buyer Price rise and inflation continue to hang over the state government like the sword of Damocles. With prices of vegetables and     other food items rising throughout the year, the Consumer Price Index (CPI) also rose consistently during the financial year.     According to the Directorate of Economics and Statistics, in cities like Mumbai, the average CPI for the period between April 2010 and January 2011 rose by 12% in relation to the corresponding period over the previous fiscal year. In rural Maharashtra, it increased by 11.2% over the previous year. The reason for this was the rising cost of commodities like jowar, milk, oil, groundnut, onion, garlic, tomato, etc. An overall 32.34% rise was witnessed in prices of food, beverages and tobacco, while rise in LPG pushed up the ‘fuel and light’ inflation by 15.69% over last year’s prices. Food price index peaked in December 2009. A declining trend was however noticed in the year-onyear inflation rate.
THE WORLD ON OUR PLATE The last decade saw a sea shift in the way we dine. We matched global trends and rediscovered our own culinary diversity. Our chefs are copycats no more and Michelin-anointed foodies are flying in for inspiration Reshmi R Dasgupta TNN     It’s hard not to be gobsmacked by the food revolution in the Indian marketplace in the past decade. If the plethora of regional cuisines coming to the fore does not evoke enough shock and awe, the world arriving at our doorstep should do it. From vilayti gobi (broccoli) and button mushrooms to artichokes and avocados, Britannia natural cheddar and Amul Gouda to Camembert and Gorgonzola, industrial white bread to wholegrain bagels and croissants, chicken salami and bacon to chorizo and proscuitto, it’s a culinary carnival.     The world is our oyster now and we aren’t averse to shucking out a few clams for the best any more. So if London now offers us Wahaca’s Mexican delicacies and “Bar Boulud has made the burger respectable” as Iqbal Wahhab of London’s Roast restaurant puts it, his prediction that the “halal Pound will need a trendy home” and “Dishoom will be the new Indian middle market brand even as smart desis stick to oriental favourites China Tang and the new Hakkasan,” is significant.     Add to this the fact that more Indian restaurants are earning culinary accolades, and it’s clear that India is at the top table now. The churn in the Indian taste sphere is indeed exciting, even if it’s not quite in the same direction as other culinary geographies.     We are not yet eating chapulines (Oaxacan grasshoppers), for instance, even if beleaguered Brit chef Gordon Ramsay showcased the ant chutney made by Bastar’s Dhuruva tribe in his TV show Gordon’s Great Escape this year. But despite beginning 2010 amid dire predictions of a milk shortage and ending it in tears over onions, food inflation in double digits hasn’t stopped Indians from salivating over new flavours.     For one set of Indians, the rating of Noma as the best restaurant in the world — pipping El Bulli and The Fat Duck — has been as prophetic as the return of Michelinstarred Vineet Bhatia to India with Ziya and Azok in Mumbai. For it has meant Indian cuisine has not only moved from the backburner, it has come back to reclaim its own food legacies. But for the aam aadmi torn between rising aspirations and rising prices, RBI-speak on the food scenario has been more significant.     In its mid-quarterly review of the monetary policy the RBI averred that “Among food items, the moderation in inflation for cereals and pulses has been larger than that in inflation of protein-related food items such as egg, fish, meat and milk, reflecting the structural nature of food inflation.” And its deputy governor Subir Gokarn concluded that “increasing demand for proteins appears to be an inevitable consequence of rising affluence”. Too much money chasing too few onions, some might say. Calling for “the availability and affordability of proteins,” however, he mentioned the White Revolution’s milk boom and the Green Revolution’s boosting of carbohydrates in the Indian diet. Maybe a Bean (rajma, lentils and pulses) Revolution in the next decade is the answer, as there’s hardly a dal moment these days when it comes to balancing the household food budget.     Interestingly, India appeared to be right in sync with 2010’s four themes as divined by the Culinary Trend Mapping Report of the USbased market research firm, Packaged Facts and the Center for Culinary Development: Back to the Basics, Artisan Upgrades, Healthful Eating, and Regional and Global Flavor Adventure. But India and the world are taking differing paths to implement what could be the cookbook for the new decade.     The Copenhagen-based Noma’s fanatically locavore Scandinavian menu — think pickled seaweed, nettles and musk ox tartare — is unlikely to appeal to the Indian palate, but its food mantra is indicative of a new western trend: the extra virgin olive oil and garlic-centric hegemony of the Mediterranean diet is being squeezed out in favour of less known regional cuisines.     India, having succumbed to the evocative appeal of the Mediterranean diet as the 21st century arrived, is not that fanatical yet about going back to local or seasonal. Maybe it’s too soon after the shortage economy days of pre-liberalisation to curb our exuberance about being able to eat what we want, when we want it! Butterball turkeys from the US and New Zealand lamb shanks, hothouse asparagus and odoriferous brussels sprouts, we want ‘em all, never mind what we eventually do with them.     Hearteningly however, India is now also rediscovering her own culinary diversity, albeit on paradoxically parallel tracks — think Surianistyle tharavu (duck) roast and Bhatia’s Varqi 23-carat black-spiced chicken tikka. If one signals a move towards regional cuisines, the other bespeaks India’s rising profile in international innovative dining.     Nor are Chef Hemant Oberoi’s Varqi crab at Taj Mahal New Delhi’s Varq, Manish Mehrotra’s meetha achaar spare ribs for Indian Accent and Anjan Chatterjee’s Bengali sushi at Oh Calcutta! mere flashes in the pan when it comes to ‘new’ nouvelle cuisine. Gone are copycat attempts at molecular gastronomy and improbable fusions of flavour. In their place are genuine attempts at reinterpreting Indian cuisines.     As sommelier Magandeep Singh notes, the “accent is back on Indian food — nouveau, regional, traditional, all served fine dining style.”     From Zune to Ziya, some would say. And be they chefs with chutzpah or food entrepreneurs, both are putting their mouth where the money is in India: in new flavours and experimentation.     If Indian Accent’s subziof water chestnuts and morels paired with a dosa pyramid can be taken as a metaphor, the forecast by Yum Yum Tree’s Varun Tuli that “we will see at least a couple of true-blue hearty pan-Indian restaurants in 2011 with small menus and no division of region” may well come true.     Restaurateur Marut Sikka, whose upscale Indian outlet Kainoosh made an enviable debut this year, weighs in on this with his ‘Diet Coke’ rule. “If I can’t afford the kilojoules, give me something that’s zero calories at almost similar taste,” he says. “What’s definitely ‘out’ is anything that clogs your arteries and merely tastes ‘okay’; what’s definitely ‘in’ is what’s healthy and tastes brilliant.” His belief that healthy eating is a matter of balance — “as long as taste is not severely compromised by lowering the unhealthy elements” — has a universal relevance as western chefs on the revival trail have taken the same tack. But more relevantly, it has become the guiding principle for the new crop of restaurants in India, as well as some established ones who have done a rethink on their raison’etre.     So even an iconic ‘institution’ like Dum Pukht at the ITC Maurya hotel in Delhi has added a fresh lot of vegetarian dishes to its famed repertoire of galoutis and kakoris (a genre that Varun Tuli predicts will be supplanted by robust Andhra mutton tikkas soon) and Oh Calcutta! has bravely debuted steamed versions of fried Bengali favourites. As Chatterjee puts it, “Cuisines are always developing and reflect the times. What was once the norm can evolve later as habits and lifestyles change.”     The now-ubiquitous presence of ‘near organic eggs’ at even neighbourhood stores is solid evidence of slowly changing mores. So Olive Bar & Ai executive chef Sabyasachi Gorai is not jumping the gun by predicting a rise in the demand for “natural and organic produce” at least among his clientele, and a focus on “simple recipes with more importance given to quality of ingredients” in the tradition of the slow food movement.     Befittingly, 2010 was brimming with cookbooks that showcased India’s culinary range — from India: the Cookbook by Pushpesh Pant, Lathika George’s The Suriani Kitchen, Street Food of India by Sephi Bergerson, to Mallika Basu’s Miss Masala and Madhur Jaffrey’s Curry Easy.     Not that all Indians are eating Indian, though eating desi is about as locavore as we get, minus the geographical caveats the West puts on the word. A significant number are still going international, carbon footprints and credit crunches be damned. Little wonder then that Michelinstarred chefs and premier cru French winemakers are now regular travellers to Delhi, Mumbai and Bangalore.     It’s a fine time in particular for Japanese cuisine, though it’s a genre that has little time for local substitutes. Gorai sees Japanese kobachi (a sort of tapas) as the star turn of 2011, but the flurry of ersatz Japanese offerings, be it smoked salmon maki rolls in Gurgaon or wasabi prawns at Chennai’s Fusion 9, does underline the need for more casual Japanese places.     Anyway, that Indians are eating out with a vengeance and being seen in the right places cannot be denied. Singh points to the ‘garagechic of Pali Village Café in Mumbai and the ‘Japanese Kindergarten’ look of Mamagoto and the stunning setting of Circa with Qutub Minar as the backdrop, both in Delhi. Given his nose for fine wines, Singh also draws attention to the fact that “with a new licence allowing restaurants to serve light alcoholic beverages, beer and wine became easier to find in 2010”. If beer from micro-breweries has become the toast of the malltrawlers, at the upper end the “what you drink is who you are” axiom has come to the fore with champagnes like Dom Perignon adding fizz to the party scene, according to luxury brand Moet-Hennessy’s Gaurav Bhatia.     Not that all this wine drinking led to flagging spirits in 2010. Fine whisky ambassador Sandeep Arora, while affirming that as India emerged from the downturn, high-end spirits retail took off again led by vodka, gave a thumbs up to single malts though he saw an increasing loyalty for established labels. “Brands new to India will need to invest more,” was his forecast. The advent in India of the Scotch Malt Whisky Society notwithstanding, will Indians get their tongues around Bruidladdich or Auchentoshan any time soon? As India looks beyond the Noughties, there is no doubt we will have plenty of food — for thought and enjoyment.     (For more stories, visit www.timescrest.com)
BUY YOUR ONIONS ONLINE THE PRICE-EFFECTIVENESS AND CONVENIENCE OF GROCERY SHOPPING ON THE NET IS MAKING IT A POPULAR TREND SWATI SONI     Thought you could buy brinjals online? How about the milk you forgot to pick up for this morning' s chai? Well, your local kiranawala has always been just a phone call away, but now, you needn' t even try to explain what you want five times over or listen to his excuses for higher prices. Welcome to the world of the virtual grocer - he is convenient, faceless and even a whole lot cheaper.     The online grocery market is experiencing rapid growth. Growing internet penetration, the entry of new industries and the ease that it offers time-pressured consumers, makes it a lure.     "Online grocery shopping is appealing from an economic standpoint. Here, you needn' t pay for check-out clerks, display cases or parking lots. Online grocers can drop prices below those of retail stores and yet remain profitable," says Armendra Kumar, a Worli-based business expert.     How does it work out cheaper? JS Power 10, a popular company that deals in online grocery, admits, "A customer' s order gets redirected to the biggest wholesaler. This consignment is then picked up from the wholesaler and delivered to the customer's mailing address free of cost." U V Retail' s groceryshop.in, is another first of its kind online supermarket in India. It means no waiting for deliveries and the freedom to return any item if found in a damaged condition. BENEFITS OF SHOPPING ONLINE Each item is cheaper as compared to the store prices Door-step delivery - no lugging your shopping bags. On time delivery - no repeated phone calls and requests. Payment can be done by cash, debit card or credit card. Orders can be placed 24x7.
They don’t steal mangoes in ANNA COUNTRY What makes Ralegan Siddhi special? Manjiri Damle travels to the model village to get the true measure of the place — and of the man behind its makeover The mangoes are ripening in the sun. The hundreds of trees planted by Anna Hazare are laden with tempting fruit these days. No one’s keeping watch. Does anyone ever steal mangoes around here? Apparently not. “The notice boards you see, warning of a Rs 100 fine for plucking fruit or flowers is for people coming from outside. We get hundreds of visitors who come to see Anna’s work or to receive training in watershed development at our training centre,” says Anil Sharma, who lives in Ralegan Siddhi and is Hazare’s secretary.     The village, 80km from Pune, is home to 2,500 people. Listen to the locals and it is a veritable paradise on earth. But what do the police records say? Last year, the local Parner police station recorded five ‘crimes’ in Ralegan Siddhi. Two were accidents, the others family disputes. This year, just one ‘crime’ — a quarrel between brothers — has been registered so far, says Inspector T K Vahile, who looks after Parner police station. The crime rate — if it can be called that — is “extremely low” in Ralegan Siddhi, says Vahile.     What makes Ralegan Siddhi so special? Appearances count. At first glance, Ralegan Siddhi turns a smiling face to a watching world. Despite being in a drought-prone area, it is lush and green. Its tree-lined roads are clean; neat houses abut them; every villager seems healthily and happily busy harvesting the onion crop. Unlike the typical Indian village, Ralegan Sidhi does not have open drains; its trees are not festooned with plastic bags and its streets are not clogged with litter.     Look as hard as you might but there is no one to be found smoking, chewing tobacco or spitting. Anna Hazare’s paradise on earth bans cutting trees, putting cattle out to pasture, liquor dens and the sale of tobacco, cigarettes and bidis. Datta Awari, 27, is proud to explain the law enforcement process of the village. “Old and decaying trees are cut after taking permission from the gram sabha. But before cutting a single tree, at least five new ones are planted. Now we have reached a stage where there is hardly any land available for tree plantation.”     He says the rules governing cattle are strict. “The ban on open grazing does not mean we send our cattle to the next village for grazing. Our cattle are stall-fed and we buy the fodder when the forest department holds auctions to sell hay.”     The village appears to have had a knock-on effect on others in the area. Awari claims the neighbouring villages of Vadule, Panule, Sangvisurya and Pimpalner took a leaf out of Ralegan Siddhi’s book five years ago and now pursue developmental work.     The state government introduced a model village scheme in 2001, which offers money for watershed development, tree planting, sanitation and carefully designed cropping patterns. Hazare was given responsibility for drafting the rules that govern the scheme. Maharashtra had 201 model villages in 2010. A further hundred will convert to ‘model village’ by 2014.     Inspector Vahile corroborates some of the transformative magic worked by Ralegan Siddhi. He says there is complete prohibition in Ralegan Siddhi, Pimpalner and Panule. “Other villages in the area do not have liquor shops or dens but as they are located on the highway the villagers have access to beer bars on the highway. However, nobody dares to take liquor from outside into these villages,” he says.     But don’t villagers chaff at these rules? Not at all, insists middle-aged Badambai Bhalekar. “Why would we oppose the rules laid down by Anna and the gram sabha? He is not teaching us anything bad, is he? When you live in cities, you too must be following some rules. We are doing the same, following rules that are for the good of the village and us. Had you seen the pathetic condition of our village before Anna came here, you would not have asked me why we do not mind following these rules,” she says.     It is a reference to the hard life Ralegan Siddhi endured before Hazare wrought his quiet revolution. Then, the village grew little food, had little water at the height of summer and 80% of its people had to walk five kilometres a day on average in search of work. For many, operating a liquor den was the only reliable source of income.     It took its toll. Indubai Mapari recalls that whole “families were destroyed”. She says that “men would drink and do nothing. It was impossible for village women to step out of our homes after 4pm because the roads will be filled with sozzled men. We had to go to neighbouring villages in search of work so that we could feed our families.”     Things got so bad that almost 40% of the village migrated to Pune and Mumbai. Most returned only in the 1980s when farming became a paying activity thanks to Hazare.     Ganesh Bhapkar, a young man, says his peers are happy to shun the vices that afflict others around the world. “In the earlier days some of the old people had become addicted to liquor and would do anything to get it. But once liquor dens were removed, their families kept a watchful eye on them and any attempt to bring liquor from outside was dealt with firmly — by sound thrashing by the family members,” he says.     Shopkeeper Arun Bhalekar is a senior citizen and remembers the difficult transition to an alcohol-free zone. “Anna came here in 1975 and the next two years were spent convincing villagers to shun liquor. We had stooped to such level that wood planks and logs from the village temple were stolen to be used as fuel in liquor dens. Anna spent his own money to rebuild the temple, held gram sabhas to convince us about the importance of voluntary labour, watershed development and tree plantation. When we asked him how we can become prosperous, he said giving up liquor and removing the dens would help. Surprisingly the first support came from a villager who owned four dens.”     Hazare set the village to work — and on the course to a more sustainable future. They learnt to conserve water, built nullahs and bunds and dug trenches. They planted meadows and 500 hectares with crops. They constructed weirs.     Ground water levels rose and Hazare was able to work out a cropping pattern suitable for the soil and available water. The village was finally able to grow enough food to feed itself and its wells stayed full of water even at the hottest time of year.     But the biggest change has been in social behaviour — perhaps at the cost of some personal freedom? No one here would admit this and in any case, many might think this a small price to pay for the freedom from want.     Suresh Pathare was one of those who left the village but returned when it had remade itself. “My parents and uncle shifted to Mumbai in 1972 but after hearing about Anna’s work my parents decided to come back in 1982 after I was born. I graduated from Shirur and came back to Ralegan Siddhi to work in a project started by Hazare and I was so impressed that I decided to continue working for him.”     Pathare says his generation likes Hazare’s code of conduct. “All the rules were unanimously passed by the gram sabha in a democratic manner. Nobody imposed them on us,” he says.     Is Ralegan Siddhi too good to be true? No, says Sunita Gupta, head of the sociology department in Pune’s Fergusson College. People like Hazare have the moral authority to tell people what to do, she says. “Be it Anna Hazare in Ralegan Siddhi or Popatrao Pawar in Hivre Bazar village, both have done commendable work and improved the conditions there. Though some decisions may have been taken unilaterally, there is no doubt about the quality of work done by them. It is in our culture to deify such persons and once that happens nobody can think of opposing people like Hazare. The tendency is to do what they say.”
Food inflation rises to 8.74% on fruit prices New Delhi: Reversing a three-week declining trend, food inflation shot up to 8.74% for the week ended April 9 from 8.28% in the previous week on account of expensive fruits, protein-based items and onions, according to the official data released on Thursday.     The surge from the last week, which was incidentally the lowest in a-year-and-half, is likely to put more pressure on the government looking bewildered after the overall inflation for March overshot its forecast of 8%. Headline inflation last month was recorded at 8.98%. Prime Minister Manmohan Singh on Thursday said persistent inflation, especially in the food sector, had become a cause for concern.     While calling for increasing productivity and production in the agriculture sector, he said, “The needs of a growing and increasingly more prosperous population can only be met by enhanced production of a diversified basket of agricultural products.”     Singh’s concern stems from what appears to be an embedded spike in prices of fruits, egg, meat and fish. PTI
PINCHING HARD Food inflation up, RBI set to hike key rates TIMES NEWS NETWORK New Delhi: Ahead of the Reserve Bank of India’s monetary policy statement next week, food inflation went up marginally to 8.76% for the week ended April 16 compared to 8.74% in the previous week. During the week, prices of fruits went up 28.43%, while egg, meat and fish prices rose by over 12%. Onions, which had become a political hot potato, saw a near 11% rise on a year-on-year basis.     The good news was that food price index dipped marginally and economists expect food inflation to moderate in the coming months. But with oil and commodity prices remaining at elevated levels, economists are predicting further increase in policy rates next week. While a 25 basis point increase is a given, economists are saying that RBI could opt for a steeper 50 basis point increase (100 basis points = one percentage point).     “While the base case is that of the RBI hiking rates by 75-100 basis points through the year, due to inflationary pressures... the current debate now is whether it hikes by 25 bps or 50 bps on May 3. We place the odds at 60:40 for a 25 bps hike. Apart from rate hikes, a key factor to watch out for is the RBI's guidance on growth and inflation,” Citi economist Rohini Malkani said in a note.     “With the rise in inflation related to non-food manufactured products in March 2011 and the anticipated increase in the prices of some petroleum products, the RBI is expected to maintain its anti-inflationary stance and hike the repo and reverse repo rates by 25 basis points in the upcoming review of monetary policy,” Icra economist Aditi Nayar added.     RBI governor D Subbarao is due to hold consultations with finance minister Pranab Mukherjee ahead of Tuesday’s announcement. We will talk with RBI governor before he announces the monetary policy. We will have a discussion,” Mukherjee said, while maintaining that food inflation numbers were in line with recent trends. The central bank and the government had misread the price situation last year and latest data showed the inflation was estimated at 8.98%, higher than estimates put out by the finance ministry (7.5%) and RBI (8%). Subbrao has already hiked policy rates eight times since March 2010 to get a firmer grip over inflation, which economists say is headed upwards.     “Inflation will continue to be a major concern, unless there is an improvement in the situation in the Middle East and North Africa and oil prices come down. Inflation is also expected t remain firm because of administered coal prices increases and stickiness in manufactured nonfood products inflation,” research agency NCAER said in a statement on Thursday.     Corporate India's confidence level in doing business declined in April-June period to its lowest level in six quarters due to rising prices and global uncertainties, an NCAER-MasterCard Worldwide Index of Business Confidence survey revealed. At the present level this is the lowest confidence level seen in the last six quarters.
CORNER OFFICE RAHUL KHULLAR, COMMERCE SECRETARY ‘Trade deals are not about dollars & cents’ Sidhartha & Surojit Gupta TNN     Commerce secretary Rahul Khullar is known to speak his mind even if others are not comfortable with it. The diminutive 1975-batch IAS office of the union territory cadre keeps a close watch on where the economy is headed given that he has a tough job on hand. While he has to push India’s exports at a time when the global economy is slowing down, Khullar also has to act as a key troubleshooter when things go out of hand in the domestic market, whether it is spiraling onion prices or a spurt in cotton exports.     The 58-year-old civil servant’s stint under Rajiv Gandhi at the prime minister’s office and the finance ministry comes handy in dealing with difficult situations. Khullar, who has a doctorate in economics, has had a ringside view of economic reforms that started during his stint as private secretary to the then finance minister Manmohan Singh.     Branded a tough boss, he often ends up spending more hours in office than his subordinates.     Khullar has spent sixand-a-half years in the commerce ministry, which he had joined as a joint secretary. Barring a six-month stint in the disinvestment department in 2009, he has been busy making life simple for exporters besides expanding India’s market, especially in non-traditional countries such as those in Latin America and Africa. During his stint, India has embarked on a series of free trade agreements and unveiled the concept of special economic zones. Some of his plans have worked, some haven’t. But exports clearly have been on an upswing, galloping from under $65 billion when Khullar came to Udyog Bhawan to nearly $250 billion last year. What is your outlook for exports?     Don’t get carried away by the 30-40% growth in 2010. It (2011) is going to be a very difficult year. Developed country markets are not going to do as well in 2011 as they did in 2010.The developing country markets are not looking too good either. In many of these markets, we now see palpable inflationary pressures. Monetary policy will tighten and as interest rates go up, you know exactly what will happen to growth. Commodity price inflation is throwing everything out of kilter. Therefore, I am far from sanguine that 2011 will be as rosy as 2010 was. At this point of time, my best guess is that exports may end up in the $280-285 billion range, if we are lucky. Are we doing something about it or is there something that exporters need to do to address this?     Two things will happen in the next three months. There will be a supplement to the Foreign Trade Policy. Second, some initiatives will flow from the Strategy Paper released a few weeks ago. My guess is that those initiatives will have payback a year (and beyond) from now, not this year. These things take time. They are not instant fixes. When is the supplement to the Foreign Trade Policy expected?     We need two-three months to do it. Will the OECD meeting help bridge the gap on WTO talks? Do you expect a breakthrough till the US elections are over?     It is not impossible but it’s improbable. At this point of time, it’s stuck on some issues. But, the real problem is that on several substantive issues, the last two years have not resulted in any narrowing of differences. Theoretically, if members could narrow their differences quickly, we could conclude the talks by 2011. Right now, it doesn’t look very easy because there is a stand-off and no one seems willing to cede anything. Is there a danger of talks completely falling apart since every country is signing new FTAs?     The real issue is if you can’t get everything in Doha done, can you get a part of it done? Can you bank some of it? Should we get at least some of the things sorted out? The moment you put all these on the table, some would say yes to some things, some would say no. That discussion has not taken place. Things will start moving only after May 31 and then you should be looking for a discussion on what you can reasonably harvest from Doha in the next seven months. Our position on FTAs seems to have changed from what it was seveneight years ago when we were against it. Are we looking at something that runs parallel to the multilateral process?     There is no conscious move to block multilateral deals but we have to do what is in our best interests. One way to go about things is to say that we will only do multilateral deals. In today’s world, that’s ostrich-like. Everyone is doing bilateral deals. We are latecomers but fortunately we have managed to close some good deals. The other thing is everyone is coming to make a deal with us mainly because we have a large and growing market. Are we late in Africa given what China has done?     I won’t say we are late but we ought to have got (there) earlier. We have had very good relations with nearly all African countries after independence. There was a common political heritage in the struggle against colonialism. But somewhere along the line, we got a little diverted. We cannot and do not want to mimic what the Chinese are doing. In our view, the economic cooperation model works better than the imperialistic model. Do we gain something from FTAs with Australia, New Zealand or Canada?     One, Australia and New Zealand are part of the greater Asian arc. So, it is not possible for me not to engage with them while I engage with ASEAN, Japan and South Korea. Two, at the end of the day, we need to get something from them. Both are great agricultural exporters, both have huge expertise in dairy, which we need to tap. Both are also markets where we can export high quality services. There are large amounts of mineral wealth such as coal and gold.     Canada is looking to expand its ties with us, and others. There are complementarities. They have minerals and food grains such as pulses. In eastern Canada, there are high-tech companies such as RIM and Nortel. They have a huge public health system, and that can help us get our pharma products in. There are nearly two million people of Indian origin. The critical thing is that trade is not just about dollars and cents; it’s about resources, services, movement of persons, corporate entities, investment flows, strategic interests and politics.
CCI to look at food price spike TIMES NEWS NETWORK New Delhi: The recent spurt in prices of food articles, particularly onions, has come to the notice of fair play watchdog Competition Commission of India (CCI) that is now undertaking an exercise to look into competition issues into the agriculture sector with a focus on tracking down any “distortions and imperfections” in the distribution channel of commodities that could have led to escalation of prices at the retail level.     Apart from the agri sector, CCI will also conduct an indepth analysis of the steel and paper sectors to identify any anomalies and anti-competitive practices. “To ensure fair and healthy competition in the Indian economy, the CCI is initiating a series of market studies to analyse and monitor the competitive dynamics in various industries. In the initial phase, we have taken up agriculture, steel and paper,” outgoing chairman Dhanendra Kumar said.     The agri study, 'Market Structures for Agricultural Commodities in India', has been commissioned to the Institute for Social and Economic Change (ISEC). “The purpose of the study is to capture the supply-side dynamics for select agricultural commodities, including onion,” CCI said. Also, the study will analyse the structure, degree and nature of market competition at each stage of the supply chain as well as functioning of the 'mandis'.     Crucial aspects like process of price discovery will be based on direct field investigations and identification of competition and efficiency bottlenecks. The spurt in food inflation in recent months had brought into focus the critical issues of price volatility in agricultural commodities, agricultural market structures and market efficiency, CCI said. ‘CCI-approved M&As have legal cover’ New Delhi: Competition Commission of India (CCI) on Thursday said mergers approved by the watchdog would be immune from legal challenges under the Competition Law, as per the anti-trust immunity (ATI) clause.     “If a company obtains a clearance from us on any joint venture, it obtains a certificate which implies that the deal is free from the risks of facing any challenges from the rivals,” said Dhanendra Kumar, chairman, CCI. He also urged the companies to approach the regulator for pre-merger consultations. “Punishment for anti-competitive practices is not so tough now, but in future it will get stiffer. Confidentiality of data, however, is maintained at all costs while scrutinizing M&A cases,” he added.
Cost of fuel not so high even in Mum, say Thaneites Nitin Yeshwantrao | TNN Thane: The rise in diesel prices has drawn the ire of Thaneites who will have to shell out Rs 48.07 for every litre of diesel as against Rs 45.84 in Mumbai, impacting grocery sales and hurting families.     Presumably the only major city that levies an octroi as high as 4% on diesel and petrol, the revised rates have pushed the prices upward of Rs 48 and Rs 71, respectively Residents here voiced thei resentment against the hike in diesel and cooking ga rates as it directly impacts their cost of living.     “Thane could be one of the most expensive places to live in. Even in Mumbai, the cost of fuel is not so high This is ridiculous,’’ said Sachin Salunkhe,who lives i Vartak Nagar.     The future of the hotel in dustry and small restaurants is alsobleak.Smalleateriesthat use residentialcooking gas and sell home-cooked food at lower rates will be hit hard.“Onion prices in the wholesale market havetouchedRs12 per kilo and are likely to rise again. The price of commercial LPG gas is said to go up to Rs 1,400 making it very difficult for us. Just last month we had to increase the food and liquor rates,’’ said hotelier Brijesh Sharma.
The Right Menu Private investment can help us beat food crises     If we needed further proof of the pernicious social consequences of persisting inflation, a recent study by Crisil provides it. It says soaring inflation cost Indian households an added burden of Rs 5.8 lakh crore over the last three fiscal years. And it’s primarily owing to food inflation that annual private consumption spending grew to almost 17% during this time from 14% earlier. Spending mainly on eatables, low-income groups – with little or no disposable income – have been hardest hit by scorching food prices. Yet, there’s marked official apathy vis-a-vis the broader structural problems food inflation highlights.     Take the fact that a bumper wheat harvest should normally bring cheer. But courtesy official unpreparedness compounded by export bans, illequipped granaries are stretched beyond capacity. Foodgrain stocks exceed the manageable amount for warehouses countrywide. In some FCI godowns, wheat is being kept out in the open because covered facilities have been full up thanks to non-clearance of grain. And due to faulty, business-unfriendly policies, not enough private capital has flowed towards building modern silos and storage. We’re in an anomalous situation: a ‘problem of plenty’ now coexists with a psychology of want linked to high food costs. The case with fruits and vegetables is similar. Courtesy inadequate cold chains, nearly 40% goes waste annually even as shop prices of onions or apples soar.     Given food prices are a major inflationary trigger, supply side issues must be tackled urgently. That means embracing agricultural reform in all its aspects: productivity, marketing and distribution. Only then can we access the multifarious benefits of creating infrastructure, raising output and introducing effective delivery systems that’ll supplement – or even replace – the PDS from where subsidised foodgrain routinely rots or gets siphoned off. In this context, there’s been a reassuring signal recently that the government plans to liberalise multibrand retail. Greater private investment will help build capacity. Plus it’ll strike a blow against predatory middlemen in the supply chain who eat into farmers’ incomes while inflating retail prices.     Private funds are critical to farming’s overall modernisation, whether for innovating with water-efficient irrigation, promoting research in agricultural inputs and transgenic crops or boosting agri-processing. In view of unviable farm sizes across India, we must incentivise cooperatives and contract farming. Where supply is concerned, let’s lift barriers on transport and marketing of commodities. Our antediluvian mandi system enriches commission agents, not growers who need direct, competitive access to processors and sellers. Finally, let’s move away from corrupt, unwieldy bureaucracies handing distribution towards well-targeted, personalised instruments like food coupons or cash transfers. That’ll better ensure food gets to the needy even while giving them a sense of agency and greater choice.
TIMES FOOD GUIDE Rashmi Uday Singh MASTI IN MONSOONS     Just for you: two garma garam ideas for masti in the monsoons and lunch with fabulously focused young talent in a themed restaurant which turns out to be the opposite. Bombils on the Highway The Potnis family’s ‘Highway Gomantak’ in Bandra East was my find 22 years ago when it had just opened in a corrugated tin-roofed shack. And now, it’s bigger than before but still retains its no-frills look and prices. On a rainy night we gorged on Fish Fry, Mutton Sukhe Thali, Gomantak Veggies and the plump Bombils — crisp and hot on the outside and wobbly and yummy on the inside. A perfect monsoon treat. Where: Highway Gomantak, Pranav Co-op Housing Society, Bandra (E) 26409692 (open for lunch and dinner); Thursday closed. Parathas on the pavement Sizzling garam parathas in the rains? I visited Nandu’s Parathas in Fort, one adventurous night along with Pallavi Sheth and Tanaz Billimoria. We sat on makeshift chairs and tables on the pavement (the eatery really is a hole in the wall) Super new paratha vocabulary here… and one which delivers taste too. Plump (pure veggie) parathas from the simplest to the fanciest, served with onion pickle and curd. Go for the Vada Pav Paratha which actually manages to distil the flavour and even textures of the yummiest Vada Pav. The oozy Chilly Cheese Garlic is super too. Okayish Jalapeno Cheese and Palak Paneer Paratha too. Mooli paratha buffs can rejoice. Dal Makhni and VFM set meals (Rs 100-165) too. Where: Nandu’s Parathas, 19, Sonawala Bldg., Green Street, Fort, Mumbai, 22702265 (open 11 am to 11 pm) Arthur’s theme Humdrum décor. Ditto for the food (dishes named after all kinds of historic characters) And that just about sums up my review of this new Juhu restaurant. Having eaten, enjoyed and reviewed the Pune Arthur’s theme, for my Pune Food Guide 2001, it was with great anticipation that I drove here straight from the airport after landing from Bangalore.     We zoomed up the lift of the Tian building into a small, boxed-in, mirrored and totally empty restaurant with a blaring TV and a bar.     And (by contrast) what a treat my young guests were… Gorgeous in her Just Cavalli dress, this management student from Chandigarh Kulraj Randhawa has been making waves in the entertainment industry for the past seven years and was the lead actress of one the biggest hits this year. Rolling sushi and baking is what she excels in. The curly-locked, ever smiling singer Keerthi Sagathia cooks great Punjabi fare. “My wife’s first pregnancy made me a cook,” he says pointing to his charming wife Rekha who lunched with us too. On my request we listened to a range of his versatile repertoire of songs on his mobile.     We ate our way through many Italian and Continental dishes, like the squishy and spicy ‘Mona Lisa’ (pasta tossed in garlic-infused olive oil), ditto for ‘Lorenzetti’ (mushroom and paprika sauce pasta). What? ‘Richard’ ‘Excalibur’ ‘Fredrick’ and ‘Nelson’ (names of turkey dishes) not available? And no cottage cheese ones either. However, ‘Beatrix’ (mushroom and olive stuffed chicken drowned in a white sauce) and ‘Columbus’ (spinach and vegetables slathered in a creamy white sauce) were just okay. American corn, zucchini and mashed potato ‘Vivian’ was slushy with a cheesy white sauce. Lemon Soufflé was unavailable and not the greatest Chocolate Walnut Cake and an okayish Tiramisu overloaded with cream. By the way ‘Ester’ (the grilled duck) was just too dry and overcooked. What can we say except that we wish King Arthur, the knight of the round table all the best in overcoming his teething troubles. ARTHUR’S THEME Level 3, TIAN, Near Costa Coffe, 48 Gulmohar Road, Juhu. PH 6698070. Open for lunch and dinner. FOOD 2.25 SERVICE 3 DÉCOR 2.75
Inflation up at 9.44%, RBI may hike rates TIMES NEWS NETWORK New Delhi: Inflation accelerated in June and hovered close to double digit levels on the back of higher manufactured product and fuel prices, prompting the government to say that it is working with the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) to take appropriate measures to tame price pressures.     Data released by the commerce and industry ministry on Thursday showed inflation as measured by the wholesale price index stood at 9.44% in June, rising from 9.06% in May. But economists were concerned by the sharp revisions to the data of the previous month. The inflation number for April was revised sharply upwards to 9.74% from the previously announced 8.66%. The RBI has voiced its concern over the volatility in data which it says acts as a constraint while setting policy.     Inflation has remained above the comfort level of the RBI and the government for the past several months. The central bank has raised interest rates 10 times in the past 15 months to calm stubborn inflationary pressures.     F i n a n c e m i n i s t e r Pranab Mukherjee said inflation continues to be a matter of concern. The government, he said, is monitoring the situation closely and working with the RBI to take appropriate steps to reduce inflation to a more comfortable level. Mukherjee said the reasons for increase in WPI inflation include the hike in administered fuel prices, seasonal effects, an upward movement in mineral and manufactured prices and in part imported inflation.     Separate data released showed food inflation rose to a three-month high of 8.31% in early July due to higher prices of onion, fruits, milk, egg and meat prices. Mukherjee sought to draw comfort from the fact that food inflation seemed to have stabilized. Monsoon also remains a risk for food prices. The weather office on Thursday said the rains were 19% below normal in the week to July 13. The behaviour of monsoon rains have raised concerns about its impact on farm sector growth and on food prices. Economists said the RBI which reviews monetary policy later this month, will in all probability raise interest rates as inflation still remains sticky. It has already made it clear that taming inflation remains its top priority and it is ready to sacrifice some short term growth to calm prices.     “The latest inflation offers no cheer to the RBI, and the central bank will have little choice but to hike the repo rate by 25 basis points to 7.75% at its quarterly review on July 26. It will remain focussed on inflation and probably characterise the ongoing moderation in economic growth as being uneven but largely anticipated,” Rajeev Malik, senior economist at CLSA, said in a note.
No respite from rising food prices Not A Seasonal Spike | Double-Digit Rise Is New Normal For Most Commodities Surijit Gupta & Sidhartha TNN New Delhi: Policymakers may be drawing comfort from the fact that food prices have stabilized but for households the pain of rising food prices is far from over.     Food prices shot up unexpectedly last December, led by spiralling onion prices, which forced the government to announce some piecemeal measures to calm prices but they have continued to hover above comfort levels for the past six months. And data shows that onion prices are rising again.     In the week to July 2, onion prices have risen nearly 31% year-on-year and the trend in the past six weeks shows that it is rising steadily. A TOI analysis of 31 daily-use food products shows that 11 items have shown a decline. Of these, four are pulses – arhar, moong, masur and urad – while three are from the fruits and vegetables group-—potatoes, ginger, cabbage and mangoes (see table).     While the government in the past has dismissed rise in these prices as seasonal, it cannot do so any longer. For instance, milk prices have nearly trebled in the past two years and in the week to July 2 rose an annual 12.39%. In the past six weeks, prices of onions, milk, egg, meat and fish have all risen significantly. Fruit prices, which had risen up to 30.78% year-on-year in the week to May 28, have shown some softening but were still up an annual 13.54% in the week to July 2.     Monsoon remains a risk for food inflation and most economists say they would prefer to predict the movement of food prices after more data is available on the spread of the June-September rains. Floods in some parts of the country or patchy rains in states could alter the food price scenario.     Globally food prices have risen but experts say unless structural issues are tackled food prices will continue to remain high. But there is some cheer as officials say that despite the sticky food inflation, wholesale price inflation is unlikely to hit double-digits. Economists have said that the sharp revisions in the inflation numbers for the past few months and the increase in diesel prices could push the inflation rate to double-digits in the months ahead briefly. “I can tell you it will not touch double-digits. The inflation rate will be in the 8-9% region for sometime before easing. It should start easing September onwards,” a senior official, who did not wish to be identified, told TOI.     But he said it was unlikely that the inflation rate would ease to 6-6.5% by end March 2012 as has been predicted by top policymakers. “In the first three four months you have inflation above 9%. To come down to 6% by March you will need to have the inflation rate at around 4-5% for the next few months, which is impossible. So my sense is that by end-March it would be around 7%,” the official said. Inflation, measured by the wholesale price index, quickened in June to 9.44% from 9.06% in May.
Food inflation eases to 29-month low of 7.33% TIMES NEWS NETWORK New Delhi: Food inflation eased to its lowest since February 2009 on the back of a softening in prices of pulses, milk, eggs, meat and fish, but analysts say risks still persist that will maintain the pressure on prices.     Data released by the commerce and industry ministry on Thursday showed food inflation stood at 7.33% in the week to July 16, easing from the previous week’s reading of 7.58%. Food inflation, which shot up to double digits last December, has been softening as supplies have picked up. Pulses prices declined 8% in the week to July 16 from a year ago but prices of onions, fruit and vegetables rose.     Finance minister Pranab Mukherjee did not read too much into the easing of food inflation in mid-July, and said inflationary pressures were still there in the economy. “These weekly figures fluctuate mainly on the base effect. Therefore, they do not show any definitive trend,” he told reporters.     The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) has identified several risks to growth and inflation in the months ahead and has said there are risks to food inflation stemming from the monsoon performance, higher minimum support prices and inadequate supply response pertaining to protein-rich items. The RBI on Tuesday raised interest rates for the 11th time in nearly 15 months and said inflationary pressures in the economy were still strong. It also raised its March-end inflation forecast to 7% from its earlier estimate of 6%.
Buy your onions online THE PRICE-EFFECTIVENESS AND CONVENIENCE OF GROCERY SHOPPING ON THE NET IS MAKING IT A POPULAR TREND     Thought you could buy brinjals online? How about the milk you forgot to pick up for this morning’s chai? Well, your local kiranawala has always been just a phone call away, but now, you needn’t even try to explain what you want five times over or listen to his excuses for higher prices. Welcome to the world of the virtual grocer – he is convenient, faceless and even a whole lot cheaper.     The online grocery market is experiencing rapid growth in the city. Growing internet penetration, the entry of new industries and the ease that it offers time-pressured consumers, makes it a lure. “Imagine yelling that you want five kg rice and mango pickle in the middle of a silent corporate office? That’s when just placing an order online means it’s taken care of,” says (Jumana resident of Mahim and online grocery shopper.     “Online grocery shopping is appealing from an economic standpoint. Here, you needn’t pay for check-out clerks, display cases or parking lots. Online grocers can drop prices below those of retail stores and yet remain profitable,” says Armendra Kumar, a Worli-based business expert online grocer     How does it work out cheaper? JS Power 10 , a popular company that deals in online grocery, admits, “A customer’s order gets redirected to the biggest wholesaler who can supply the best quality products at the lowest possible price. This consignment is then picked up from the wholesaler and delivered to the customer's mailing address free of cost.”     U.V. Retail’s groceryshop.in, is another first of its kind online supermarket in India. “People are enjoying the convenience of online shopping. It means no waiting for deliveries and the freedom to return any item if found in a damaged condition,” says owner Davinder Goyal. Go ahead, buy your baingan online. BENEFITS OF SHOPPING ONLINE Each item is at least 5 per cent cheaper Door-step delivery – no lugging your shopping bags. On time delivery – no repeated phone calls and requests. Payment can be done by cash, debit card or credit card. Orders can be placed 24x7.
REVIEWS     MUMBAI AMADEUS Your ears are echoing with the rain-drenched music of a Nariman Point evening as you enter the bustling Amadeus. Nestled within the precincts of the National Centre of Performing Arts (NCPA), Amadeus brings to Mumbai contemporary and stylish Spanish and Eastern Mediterranean dining.     Judging by the well-heeled crowd, Amadeus has already placed itself on the pedestal of the South Mumbai finedining scene. What’s on the menu? Simple, specific and focused. Tapas, pinchos from Basque, cocas, paella, pasta and desserts. With a few cheese platters for good measure. And an extensive wine and beverage menu. What we liked: We adored their recommendation of the Apple and Ginger Martini (Rs 380). Its first sip of sheer freshness made us forget about the complicated day we had faced so far.     When the Cocas (Spanish flatbreads or pizzas for the lesser mortals) made their entry, we were surprised by its wholesome size. The Serrano Ham and Rocket Lettuce (Rs 750) was a thincrust delight whose every bite was a burst of flavour – a lovely combination of salty, crisp ham and fresh rocket.     For the mains, we tried a Two Pepper Saragota Lamb Rack (Rs 1,100). The lamb was so succulent it almost came off the bone. But, what we especially loved were the sides. The cassoulet and avocado Habenero chilli mousse was a perfectly spiced tender combination of vegetables. Though you could not taste any of the ingredients on their own, the blend worked perfectly.     Our Valenciana Paella (Rs 980), that came loaded with chicken, shrimp, lobster, mussels, calamari and chorizo, was beautiful in the sheer simplicity of its individual taste of rice, saffron and meats.     Our Hot Chocolate and Grand Mariner Souffle (Rs 350) dessert, worth the half an hour wait (the menu warns you of it), was the perfect sign-off to a lovely meal in a gorgeous setting. The steaming soufflé came with a test-tube on the side that contained hot chocolate. Break into the soufflé, tilt your test-tube into it and mix for a heady blend of hot, dark chocolate and liqueur. What we didn’t like: Nothing that accounts for the term, didn’t like, but maybe we didn’t quite understand the complexity of the Mock Bacon Maple Syrup Manhattan (Rs 450). Or perhaps, the bourbon was too strong a taste that over-powered what we expected to be a salty bacon taste.     Also, our first tapas option – the Albondigas of Lamb with Sherry Foie Gras Cream and Black Truffle Scent (Rs 550) tasted simply like lamb kebabs with a slight twist. Value for money: Of course they are steep but then Farrokh Khambata is a celebrity restaurateur and Amadeus is over-flowing with branded cars. It’s the price you pay for the plush location, under-stated cultural affluence, peep-toe heels for company and a meal that is an occasion. Meal for 2: Rs 5,000 NCPA, Nariman Point, Mumbai 022-22821212 / 022-22824242 / 9833047773     Ashishwang Godha     BANGALORE Lebmex The under-stated, comehither glass façade of Lebmex lured us. The Lebanese and Mexican combo (all vegetarian) seemed unique and the menu had a conflicting range of flavours. Yet, this cozy hang-out is the perfect place for a languid afternoon considering the sheer spread on offer. What we liked: The reasonable rates for an exotic cuisine pleasantly surprised. We were in the mood to begin with the Lebanese fare: Original Falafel (Rs 110) with oven-fresh, wholewheat pita stuffed with falafel bullets, along with salad, Turkish sauce, tahina, sour chillies and pickled vegetables. We accompanied this with a Sundried Tomato Hummus (Rs 130) and Labneh with Zatar Herbs (Rs 50) -- a delectable blend.     We sipped the Horchata (Rs 45), a traditional rice drink with a drizzle of lime and coconut cream, surreptitiously, since the exotic taste was alien to us.     Soon, we plunged into the Mediterranean Burrito Bowl (Rs 105), which we were told is an eternal favourite and were not disappointed. Filled with Lebanese sauteed veggies, black bean hummus, Parmesan cheese and beans, wrapped in laffa bread with Feta cheese, this left no room for the quesadillas, which were the other platter-stealers.     For the adventurous, there’s always the Make Your Own Burrito option. The complimentary Salsa Bar with a variety of six flavours beckoned, till we surrendered to the Roasted Corn and Pepper. Finally, the Chocolate Quesadilla (Rs 55) was just irresistible. What we didn’t like: That we had to place our orders at the counter and pay first. Still, the service was fast. Meal for 2: Rs 600 No. 487, 5 Block, Jyoti Nivas Road, Koramangala 25635000     Leena Mudbidri     DELHI [v] Spot Café + Bar This is an initiative by Channel [V] to jump “Out of the box” on to restaurateur-ing terrain. The café is a natural extension of the channel’s ambition to dominate the mind space of the youth.     Designed to be a “bloody cool” hangout, the café and bar in Delhi is the first in a series of outlets planned across India. With quirky Ipad menus, video walls, touch-screen gaming, and cool merchandise, including napkins you can kiss on and mats you can play on, this is truly a college canteen hang-out. What’s on the menu? The fairly substantial menu has been designed by Manu Chandra and is quirky enough to bring a smile to your face. There are the mandatory bar snacks — fish fingers, cheesy French fries, chicken wings — burgers and wraps as also innovative dishes such as a butter chicken khichdi, fusilli in Thai sauce, Jhinga La La (prawn), Bhutta Singh (salad with corn) and so on. What we liked: The non-veg platter (Rs 395) with fish fingers, chicken wings, sausage, onion rings and spring rolls. All fried comforts that one may dig into on a rainy afternoon. What I really found interesting was chicken Sundaram (Rs 245) tikka in south Indian spice. The dish of the day for me was a chicken pot pie; creamy, topped with a filo pastry puff that you can smash through. Desserts are also good, in particular the chocolate brownie topped with, no, not vanilla, but strawberry ice-cream. What we didn’t like: My Vrapstar (a wrap with chicken and Thai sweet chilli sauce) was disappointing. For it to be truly a fusion dish, the Thai flavours needed to be heightened. Meal for 2: Rs 500. Portions are decent and a single snack can come for as little as Rs 125. G-02, Salcon Ras Vilas, District Centre, behind Select City Walk Mall, Saket 011-40765588 Soul Spice Hotels in the NCR are now coming up in far-flung regions. These F&B destinations walk a tightrope between familiar restaurant flavours and experimental food. The Crowne Plaza in Rohini is trying to do precisely this, with Spice Art, its Indian specialty restaurant. What’s on the menu? Flavours from north India — Delhi, Avadh and Punjab. There is a chaat platter with street eats from old Delhi, the mandatory chicken tikka and dal makhani, as well as classics such as Lucknow’s unique lehsun ki kheer. On the other hand, there are some innovative offerings: galauti-canapes and gulab jamun with chocolate. What we liked: The look in dark hues of teak. The service is attentive with some nice features such as a trolley with phulkas that comes to your table (an original Masala Art concept). Food is flavourful and served at the right temperature. I should specially mention the galauti kebabs, pineapple panna and stuffed mushrooms. The dish of the day was tilflavoured, pan-fried asparagus. There are also nice touches by way of a raita platter and relishes. What we didn’t like: Nothing really was slam-worthy. The restaurant does tend to play it safe with its typical Mughal-Punjabi mix. But, that’s not necessarily bad. Meal for 2: Rs 2,500. Portions are big, so you can share. Twin District Centre, Sector 10, Rohini 011-4488 4488 Anoothi Vishal
Food inflation above 8% on onion prices TIMES NEWS NETWORK New Delhi: Food inflation went past the 8% mark, reversing the falling trend of the past two weeks on account of a spike in prices of fruits and vegetables, including onions.     Latest data released by the government estimated food inflation at 8.04% during the week ended July 23, against 7.33% a week ago. “The increase in the pace of food inflation took place despite a decline in the level of the food index, which reflects the base effect. Food inflation is expected to average around 8% for the month of July 2011 and may rise above 9% in August 2011, on account of an adverse base effect,” said Aditi Nayar, economist at rating agency ICRA.     Within vegetables, the maximum pressure seemed to be from onions, where prices went up over 26%. But a near 20% increase has been the norm for the last four weeks with the steepest rise of 31% seen during the week-ended July 2.     Government officials, too, blamed higher food inflation on the base effect. Another reason for the increase would be higher transportation costs following the increase in diesel prices in the last week of June.
Food inflation up at 3-month high of 9.9% Onion Prices Spike Most Fruits, Veggies Rise Too TIMES NEWS NETWORK New Delhi: Costly onion, fruits, vegetables and proteinbased items pushed food inflation to a three-month high in late July, highlighting the extent of price pressures in the economy and posing another challenge for policymakers.     Data released by the commerce and industry ministry on Thursday showed the wholesale price index for food articles rose an annual 9.90% in the week to July 30, rising from 8.04% in the previous week. Food prices had displayed tentative signs of easing in the previous months but have remained volatile. The data showed onion prices rose an annual 36.62% while the weekly trend showed prices of vegetables, potatoes, fruits, eggs, meat and fish have remained firm.     A sharp increase in the prices of onion last year had pushed food inflation into double-digits and had emerged as a policy headache for the UPA government which is battling a slew of corruption charges. Policymakers have been consistently wrong footed on inflation in the recent past.     The index for food articles group rose by 1.6% to 195.3 from 192.2 for the previous week due to higher prices of fish-inland (17%), poultry chicken and fish-marine (4% each), ragi and fruits & vegetables (2% each) and rice, coffee and gram (1% each).     “For a couple of weeks, rainfall has been deficient and that could have led to some short-term price pressures,” said Samiran Chakraborty, economist at Standard Chartered Bank. Economists say it is difficult to draw any sweeping conclusions from sharp fluctuations in weekly food inflation data.     Chakraborty said the Reserve Bank of India was unlikely to reverse its monetary policy stance soon and the central bank would carefully watch the movement of global commodity prices. “They have to be convinced that there is a sustained and continuous fall in commodity prices, only then can they reassess their monetary policy stand,” he said.     Expectations of a pause in the central bank’s monetary tightening had gathered pace after downgrading of US debt by ratings agency Standard & Poor’s sparked off fears of a global economic slowdown and spooked financial markets.
Food inflation nears 10%, RBI may hike rates again TIMES NEWS NETWORK New Delhi: Food inflation quickened surprisingly in mid-August, driven by higher prices of vegetables, onions, fruits and protein-based items and economists said the Reserve Bank of India is likely to continue with its tight monetary policy as inflation continues to remain a concern.     Data released by the commerce and industry ministry on Thursday showed food inflation, as measured by the wholesale price index, stood at 9.8% in the week to August 13, accelerating from 9.03% in the previous week. Finance minister Pranab Mukherjee said he was concerned with the increase in food inflation which was perilously close to double digits. He said weekly figures were volatile and an assessment of the price situation should be made on the basis of arelatively larger period.     Food prices have remained volatile in the past few weeks, hitting double digits last December. The upward bias posed amajor policy challenge for the government and the RBI.     Economists said fruits, vegetables and milk remained as pressure points but expected prices to ease in the coming weeks. The trend for the past six weeks showed that prices of potatoes, eggs, meat and fish, fruits and onions were on the rise. Onion prices rose 44.42% in the week to August 13, while vegetable prices were up 6.52%, rising from 2.59% in the previous week.     “Fruits and vegetables prices spike four to five times in a year. It is a pressure point along with milk as supply is unable to keep pace with demand. Robust monsoon should help ease food prices but overall inflation remains high,” said D K Joshi, chief economist at ratings agency Crisil.
Pricey veggies take flavour out of festive menu HARD TO DIGEST There Is No Shortage Of Produce, Yet Retailers & Middlemen Are Charging A Premium For Kitchen Staples Bella Jaisinghani I TNN     In the absence of government oversight, prices of vegetables rose once again over the past festive week. As a result, Ganpati mandals are having to rework budgets to sustain ‘bhog prasad’ offerings.     On Sunday in Colaba, Bandra and Andheri, tomato was sold for Rs 20 per kg, up from the average Rs 16 and a close second to onion at Rs 22. Cauliflower rates touched up to Rs 60 per kg over the regular Rs 40-45. Cluster beans and green peas also stood at Rs 60. Mushroom, which ordinarily sells for Rs 5-8 below MRP, was available for nothing less than the printed MRP of Rs 35.     Once again, scarcity is not the trigger. On the contrary, bazaars are filled with fresh produce. The fact is that middlemen and retailers charge a premium during the festival season, and as Ramzan Eid and Ganeshotsav coincided last week, rates rose whimsically in bazaars across Mumbai. Consequently, even mammoth organizers like the GSB Seva Sangh that feeds multi-course meals to 13,000 people each day are feeling the pinch of price rise.     The vast grounds of the GSB Seva mandal in Sion can seat 2,000 diners at one go. By Sunday afternoon, four such rounds had been served already. Yet, the richest mandal in Mumbai was disturbed by inflation. “We are able to continue this tradition thanks to the generosity of our devotees,” said president Dinesh Pai. “But our budget becomes skewed owing to continuous price rise.”     In Kalachowkie, the Abhyudaya Nagar mandal said it was stretching its resources to supply regular prasad. “Modaks have become so costly, even the regular variety sells for up to Rs 260 per kg. People who would purchase 1.25 kg now buy half the quantity. Even the average mandap that merely distributes groundnuts or the sugary ‘futane’ and ‘misri’ is finding it difficult to manage as donations have become scarce,” said president Jaising Bhosale.     Recalling the number of times the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) has raised interest rates in the past year, Dinesh Pai of GSB categorically said a similar move expected on September 16 would not help either. “If tweaking interest rates helped, we would have contained inflation by now. Politicians can work miracles if they wish. Unfortunately, the will to curb inflation is absent,” Pai said. “One prays to Lord Ganesh to bestow good sense upon them.”
Harvest or no harvest, onions are tear-jerkers Bella Jaisinghani I TNN     Despite the unprecedented bumper harvest of onion in Maharashtra in January and the additional arrivals in April-May, prices have once again risen to a steep Rs 22-24 per kg in retail markets. Just a few months before, the government had assured citizens that the country would face neither scarcity nor price rise till next year.     In fact Virendra Singh of the government-run National Cooperative Consumers' Federation of India (NCCF) had confirmed that there was a shortage of storage space owing to a surfeit of arrivals.     Since the past week, however, onion is selling for Rs 18-24 in neighbourhood markets as against the normal price of Rs 12-15 per kg. Shoppers at the Four Bungalows market in Andheri wondered if it was due to high demand during the festive season, but vendors remained non-committal about prices reducing after Ganeshotsav.     On Sunday, provision stores in Bandra were selling onion for up to Rs 24 per kg. Vendor Madanbhai Parmar said, “It is the middlemen who are raking in profits in the absence of government control on prices.”     In an alarming signal, the spokesperson of the Vashi wholesale market says rates could rise further to Rs 25. “There is no shortage of onion,” admits Ashok Walunj, director of the onion-potato market at the APMC. “However, old bulbs fetch a higher price, and the current stock has ripened from the time it was harvested in April-May. Prices will remain high, perhaps escalate to Rs 25 until the fresh crop arrives from Nashik in October.”     Simply put, in the absence of any government control, middlemen as well as retailers are at liberty to overcharge as they please. An exporter from the eastern suburbs confirmed that there was no question of scarcity, particularly since fresh stocks of the south Indian onion have also been coming. “Wholesale prices of onion stand at Rs 12-13 per kg. Despite overheads and transportation costs, there is no reason why retail costs should touch Rs 22. But logic does not apply in the retail sector, each vendor places a whimsical margin on his wares. It is for the government to intervene at times like this,” he said.     Until a fresh political row erupts over the issue, onion prices look set to draw tears once more.
Food inflation slips to 9.55% New Delhi: Food inflation slipped to 9.55% for the week ended August 27, but the common man continued to reel under price pressure as all items barring pulses and wheat remained expensive. The rate of price rise of food items fell from a five-month high of 10.05% in the previous seven-day period.     Finance minister Pranab Mukherjee expressed hope that food prices will fall further after the festive season, even as he expressed concern over the high prices of non-food and fuel products. Prices of pulses fell by 1.56% year-on-year, while wheat became cheaper by 1.04% during the week under review. However, onions became dearer by 42.03% on an annual basis, while potato prices were up by 13.38% and fruits grew 16.57% costlier. Overall, vegetables became 22.42% costlier. Milk and cereals, too, became dearer by 9.12% and 5.45%, respectively. AGENCIES
SHIPMENTS SOAR Exports surge 44% to $24bn in Aug Engineering, Petro Products Push Growth | Trade Deficit At $14 Billion TIMES NEWS NETWORK New Delhi: The country’s exports rose 44.2% in August maintaining its robust expansion on the back of strong shipments of engineering goods, petroleum and oil products, electronics and readymade garments.     Provisional data released by Commerce Secretary Rahul Khullar on Friday showed exports in August stood at $24.3 billion. During April-August 2011, exports rose 54.2% at $134.5 billion, while imports grew 40.4% at $189.4 billion. The trade deficit during the April-August period stood at $ 54.9 billion.     Imports in August 2011 were $38.4 billion, registering the growth of 41.8%. Balance of trade for the month of August 2011 stood at (-) $14.1 billion.     The sectors which notched robust growth included engineering, ($ 39.6 billion) rising 81% over last year and in the month of August it was $7 billion alone, petroleum and oil products, 60% ( $ 24.2 billion) and 4 billion for August, cotton 13,2% ($ 2.7 billion), electronics, 75% ($ 4.7 billion), readymade garments, 32% ( $ 5.75 billion).     Indian exports have grown in double digits since the past year and in July registered more than 80% growth but economist say the global economic slowdown is expected to impact shipments from the country. India’s key markets in Europe and the United States are witnessing a slowdown but diversification of exports to other emerging markets has helped sustain growth.     The commerce secretary also said a panel of ministers had decided to put non-basmati rice and wheat on the open general licence and banned exports of onion. Onion prices have soared in recent weeks and were one of the factors driving food inflation.     Asked whether the government would provide any fiscal help to exporters in the event of a sharp slowdown, Khullar said, “I don’t know when, something will have to be done.” “Till now we have had a good run, but you could be looking at difficulties down the road. If you want to prevent them, then you better kick in now with action.”     He said exports of iron ore, fruits and vegetables were not doing well.     Imports of POL rose 27% ($52.2 billion) in the April-August period while gold and silver increased 130% ($26.3 billion), machinery, 45% ($14.9 billion), electronics, 78% ($13.6 billion), organic and inorganic chemicals 30% ($30 billion) and coal 65% ($ 7 billion). Khullar also said imports of fertilizers have started picking and readymade garments and textiles have performed well.
HEADLINES AND THE FINE PRINT     Truth or dare? It has been an embarrassing week for Mayawati with the latest batch of Wikileaks cables talking about the UP chief minister’s penchant for personal corruption, the sit-ups she makes her ministers do and the jet that flew to Mumbai to fetch the Dalit leader her favourite sandals. While there is a growing feeling that she may just be frittering away a golden chance to do something special for UP and for Dalits at large, she would do well to tread carefully — for the sake of her core constituency, which is basically poor, backward and in dire need of both helping hand and guiding light.     Pocket pincher The cost of food is up again, with food inflation hovering close to double-digit figures. The problem areas are meat, chicken, eggs, onions, fruits, vegetables and milk. The RBI meanwhile says it will increase interest rates to try and bring down the inflation and that supply, and prices, will settle down around December. The ladies of numerous households will certainly be hoping so.
FOOD FOR THOUGHT NCP, Cong slug it out over onion export TIMES NEWS NETWORK Mumbai: Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader Chhagan Bhujbal on Monday demanded that the ban on export of onions be lifted immediately following the decline in retail prices.     Bhujbal’s nephew and NCP MP, Sameer Bhujbal, had earlier led a demonstration of onion farmers at Lasalgaon in Nashik. Similar demonstrationswereheld atAPMC,Vashi.     The Congress, however, said that the NCP should not politicize the issue and defame the Centre,of whichitwas a partner.     “Even the Congress favours a lifting of the ban,” MPCC president Manikrao Thakresaid.
Food inflation eases, but not enough New Delhi: Food inflation marginally eased to 9.47% for the week ended September 3 but there is no respite for the common man as most of the items, like onions and potatoes, continued to remain expensive. Food inflation measured by the Wholesale Price Index was 9.55% in the previous week.     Finance minister Pranab Mukherjee said that inflation has reached the “peak” and hoped it to gradually moderate. However, he admitted that it will take some time before prices of essential kitchen items like onion and potato decline.     “We may have seen the peak as far as monthly inflation rates are concerned with the release of figures for August 2011 on Wednesday. Here onwards we should see a gradual moderation in monthly headline inflation,” Mukherjee said on the social networking site Facebook. AGENCIES
SACKFUL OF WOES
How To Tame Hunger There are a range of measures the government could employ to control runaway food inflation Arun Firodia     Food inflation in August accelerated to 9.78% year on year, the fastest it has been in 13 months. This is over and above the high inflation of last year. As it has been doing all along, an alarmed RBI has tried yet again to combat this by hiking interest rates by 25 basis points – its 12th hike in the last 18 months. But obviously, this is not going to reduce demand for food nor food inflation.     What is the cause of food inflation? Some say that increased urban demand is the culprit. But production of food products has been increasing in step with the rise in urban population. And export of food products is too insignificant to have any impact on prices. What, then, is the real reason for the runaway rise in food prices?     In 1951-52, 89% of what the consumer spent on food reached the farmer. Now, only 34% reaches him while 66% goes to middlemen. This amounts to a whopping Rs 20 lakh crore. And why is it so? Because as per the Agricultural Produce Market Committee Act (APMC Act), a farmer must take his produce to a ‘market yard’ and sell it through middlemen. The chain of middlemen consists of eight to 10 links, each adding his profit margin of 30% or so. No wonder, then, that a farmer gets only Rs 5 per kg for onions while the consumer pays over Rs 30 per kg!     The APMC Act, passed in 1954, needs to be scrapped or substantially amended. The central government prepared a Model APMC Act in 2003. But agriculture being a state subject, many states have yet to adopt this Model Act – which provides for direct selling by farmers, contract farming and aims to remove interstate barriers for movement of food products – or implement it faithfully due to vested interests.     There are some honourable exceptions. For instance, Andhra Pradesh has started ‘Raythu Bazar’ (farmer’s market) where farmers can sell their produce directly to consumers at select locations in the city. ITC, meanwhile, has started an ‘e-chaupal’ scheme to provide internet connectivity to farmers so that they can decide to sell their produce directly to supermarkets or through market yards. The scheme covers four million farmers in nine states.     However, neither these exceptions nor modifying the APMC Act will be enough. Presently, 30-35% of food products perish during storage and transportation. If this proportion is reduced, supply would substantially increase and prices would come down. For this, we need to develop cold chains for storage and transportation all over the country on a massive scale.     Barc scientists have proved that gamma rays increase the storage life of food products like onions. And scientists at CSIO in Chandigarh have developed a high voltage process to disinfect milk in seconds. This will replace the current method of pasteurisation and save a huge amount of energy. But, needless to say, farmers just cannot afford cold storage or gamma ray equipment. Nationalised banks should step in and create a network of food banks to make storage facilities available to farmers on a rental basis. Farmers could then safely store their produce in these food banks and sell only when the market rate was remunerative. They could also get loans for buying seeds, fertilisers and pesticides from the banks.     Contract farming is another idea whose time has come. The Model APMC Act provides for this. Some companies have already made forays, sourcing produce from farmers under contract and selling them under their own brand names. More such initiatives are required by corporate retailers for a variety of farm produce. This would improve farm productivity and total food production.     Unseasonal rains, famine or pests hit farmers every three to four years. In order to prevent such calamities from devastating them, insurance companies should come forward with different schemes to give insurance cover to farmers so that they can protect their incomes. In fact, given how essential this is to our food security, the government should make it compulsory for insurance companies to do so. It should also bear fully or partly the cost of insurance for small farmers so that they are not unduly burdened. That, again, would make farming a safe and remunerative vocation.     Presently, agricultural produce does not freely move across state boundaries. The time has come to remove such restrictions. In fact, why not go for free trade in food crops among all Saarc countries? If food prices start going up in some area, supplies could be rushed from other states or neighbouring countries. Also, there is an urgent need to exempt all food products from import duties and sales tax to bring food prices under control.     No country in the world has as much fertile irrigated land as we have. But our food productivity is quite low; China’s food productivity is double that of India’s. Contract farming or precision farming technology developed by our agricultural universities can help double our food productivity too.     In short, the government must take these urgent steps if both farmers and consumers are to benefit. Merely increasing interest rates will not do. The writer is chairman, Kinetic Group.
Onion export ban lifted, city wary Vijay Singh | TNN     Onion traders at Vashi’s APMC wholesale market were a happy lot on Tuesday evening. News had just poured in that the Centre had revoked the ban on onion exports, imposed on September 9 to avoid a repeat of last year’s experience, during which onion prices had soared beyond Rs 60 per kg.     Tuesday’s decision was taken by the e m p owe re d group of ministers (EGoM) on food headed by finance m i n i s t e r P r a n ab M u k h e r j e e. Welcoming the news, chief minister Prithviraj Chavan said: “This will bring relief to farmers. The state government had made the demand to Mr Mukherjee when he visited Mumbai last week.”     APMC’s onion-potato market director Ashok Walunj said: “This will benefit the state’s poor onion farmers. They can now sell their crop for a good price at the export market. When the ban was imposed, even major onion farmers (primarily based) in Nashik had protested by refusing to put their produce up for the daily auction.”     Will exporting onions result in a price rise? “No,” Walunj said. “It is not true     that prices will rise locally. What happened last year was due to various reasons. This year, the wh o l e s a l e rates of onions have been stable for 10 days despite f a r m e r s ’ protests.”     The wholesale rate at Vashi APMC is Rs 11-14 per kg. The retail rate in Mumbai is around Rs 20 per kg.     But consumers are wary of the latest move. “The September 9 export ban was imposed out of concern for the common man,” said A Kumar, a sales executive. “We just hope local onion prices are not affected.”     The decision to lift the ban will be reviewed in a fortnight. The Centre has said it will be keenly on the lookout for any wild fluctuations in onion prices.
NEWS DIGEST Autos stay off roads again, BMC stir ends Most autos stayed off the roads for the second day on Tuesday. While RTO sources said there was a mad rush to get the faulty meters corrected, auto union leaders claimed that rogue drivers were not allowing others to ply. Meanwhile, BMC workers called off their strike on Tuesday evening after assurances from the chief minister that he would look into their demands for a pay revision. P 2, 3 Mahanand to cut milk price by 1/ltr Mahanand, the apex body of milk co-operatives, has decided to roll back its hike in milk prices by Re 1 a litre. The prices had been hiked a month ago. The decision came in on Monday and has been in effect since then. P 4 At 48.24, rupee hits 2-yr low against dollar The rupee on Tuesday hit a two-year low of 48.24 against the dollar, a level last seen on September 25, 2009. It thus continued a downward trend which has seen it fare the worst against the dollar among 10 key Asian currencies in 2011. P 23 IMF cuts India’s growth forecast for FY11 The IMF has cut India’s economic growth forecast to 7.5-7.75% for this fiscal, down from 8.5% in FY11, on account of slowing investments and sluggish global recovery. City oil spill damage estimated at 514 crore The estimated cost of damages due to the oil and pesticide spill after a collision between MSC Chitra and MV Khalija off the coast of Mumbai a year ago has been worked out to around Rs 514 crore. P 9 50-yr-old woman held for Vikhroli murder A 50-year-old woman has been arrested for the murder of an elderly woman who was found dead in her Vikhrohli flat on 14th September. The accused was a good friend and neighbour of the victim. According to police, the woman committed the murder because she was in dire need of money. P 7 Tougher mining laws: Agroupof ministers has laid down tougher laws for mining in forests and decided that some areas will be considered inviolate—where no mining can be permitted. The Centre will take a case-by-case basis approach to proposals. P 15 Ban on onion export goes: The Centre has lifted the ban on onion exports after protests by farmers in the state. P 4 
Spend 32 a day? Govt says you can’t be poor Dhananjay Mahapatra & Nitin Sethi TNN New Delhi: The Planning Commission told the Supreme Court on Tuesday that anyone spending more than Rs 965 per month in urban India and Rs 781 in rural India will be deemed not to be poor. Updating the poverty line cut-off figures, the commission said those spending in excess of Rs 32 a day in urban areas or Rs 26 a day in villages will no longer be eligible to draw benefits of central and state government welfare schemes meant for those living below the poverty line.     According to the new criterion suggested by the planners, if a family of four in Mumbai, Delhi, Bangalore or Chennai is spending anything more than Rs 3,860 per month on its members, it would not be considered poor. It’s a definition that many would find ridiculously unrealistic. Not surprisingly, the new above the poverty line definition has already created outrage among activists, who feel it is just a ploy to artificially depress the number of poor in India. The plan panel said these were provisional figures based on the Tendulkar committee report. IT’S TOUGH TO BE POOR Planning Commission says a person living in a city is not poor if this is his daily consumption     5 ON RICE/WHEAT Retail price in Delhi: Rice - 22/kg, Wheat - 12/kg What you get for 5 136g rice ( 3) & 166g wheat ( 2)     1.8 ON VEGETABLES What you get for 1.8: 180g of potatoes or 90g of onions or 90g of tomatoes or 180g of pumpkin 1 ON PULSES Price of dal: 50/kg What you get for 1: 20g 2.3 ON MILK Price of milk: 27/litre What you get for 2.3: 85ml 112* A MONTH FOR FUEL What you get for 112: 1.6 kg of LPG a month
Food inflation eases to 7-week low at 8.84% TIMES NEWS NETWORK New Delhi:Food inflation eased to a seven-week low in mid-September as prices of fruits, onion, vegetables, egg and meat moderated, bringing relief to policymakers, who have been grappling with stubbornly high food prices for several months.     Data released by the commerce department on Thursday showed food inflation stood at 8.84% in the week ended September 10, easing from the previous week’s 9.47%. It has remained above 8% level for more than eight weeks. But prices still remain firm. Onion prices rose 28.92% during the week to September 10, moderating from the 42.98% increase in the previous week, while fruit prices rose 17.67%, lower than then the previous week’s rise of 22.64%.     The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) has raised interest rates 12 times since March 2010 to tame inflation. It has consistently warned about high inflation and has said it is ready to sacrifice some short-term growth to calm price pressures. “Food inflation is at near-double digit levels, despite normal monsoons, underlining the fact that it is being driven by structural demandsupply imbalances and cannot be dismissed as a temporary phenomenon,” the central bank has said.     Overall inflation still remains above 9% and some economists say it could touch double-digits before it begins easing around December. The index for food articles rose by 0.2% to 195.7 from 195.4 for the previous week due to higher prices of chicken (8%), sea fish (6%), gram and urad (2% each) and tea, barley, river fish, arhar and moong (1% each). But prices of maize (4%), jowar and fruits & vegetables (2% each) and bajra, ragi and wheat (1% each) declined.
CITY CITY BANG BANG More options, fewer choices? Santosh Desai     Never before has India seen such choice. The coming of the market has opened up so many new options, and learning to choose between all the options is something that we, as a nation, are struggling with. The malls and shops are full of exciting new products; our television channels unleash a flood of new options across different genres, and we are experimenting with appearances, tastes and experiences. We are travelling more, grooming ourselves, eating out, reading, shopping and finding new ways to entertain ourselves.     And yet, do more options actually mean more choice? We have a few dozen television channels to choose from, but apart from volume and pitch, is there a genuine set of choices? Every successful product seems to trigger replication. If one kind of soap opera begins to work, we see a deluge of programmes with similar themes; as one anchor discovers that hysterical denunciation is the way to ratings, other channels follow suit. With so many channels, one would have thought that programming of a more specialized kind would become more viable. In the pre-liberalization scenario when most programmes got massive ratings, content that spoke to a few might have been unviable, but in today’s world where getting 2-3% of viewers is considered an achievement, surely we should have seen more diversity. To be sure, there are channels that cater to subjects other than current affairs, serials and cinema, but most of these contain international programming. We have for instance, no classical music on television, little coverage of art, no interest in local folk forms; we have channels that bring us the best of world cinema, but none that bring us the best of Indian regional cinema in any meaningful way.     Even in products where there seems to be great diversity in the options available, a closer examination reveals that the differences between options are of one kind alone. In most product categories, the market is arrayed only linearly along the dimensions of size and status. An expensive car has more room and offers a variety of ‘mores’— a bigger sound system, greater number of airbags and eventually higher status. Arranged in decreasing order of measurable worth, the market is a catalogue of sizes. Worth is measured essentially by volume rather than value. A bigger house is better and a more premium location is preferable. More viewership is better, even if it comes by sensationalizing events. Value is placed on the number of people who follow a channel rather than the influence it exercises or the credibility it enjoys. The market is currently operating at its most vertical, allowing little room for horizontal differentiation based on taste. It functions like a blind photocopy operator, replicating mediocrity over and over again, unmindful of what it is putting out. The market mechanism is unable to find value for texture and nuance, and is currently reducing most things to their basest value.     In some ways, the act of measuring worth by money makes this inevitable to a certain extent. The idea of a common currency is to make diverse things, ideas, efforts and experiences to sing in the same register. Money allows us to equate things that have nothing in common — we pay more to park our car than listen to the radio and less to eat a full meal than to go to a Britney Spears concert. We can pay millions of dollars to buy a work of art that is of no functional use and agonize over a few rupees when worrying about how much to tip the waiter. Money speaks in a monotone and comes only with a volume control knob — it can speak louder or more softly and is incapable of much inflection. Money flattens worth and in so doing so, allows it to be consumed and re-circulated.     But while money finds it difficult to locate texture within itself — hundred rupees are, in most cases, nothing more or less, the market can surely find more nuances within itself. As a mechanism, it can and should be able to provide us with more layers of choices, by which we can express ourselves with greater delicateness and precision. We need new currencies from the market, new modes of imaginations that fight the monopoly of a homogenized language and challenge the dominant market share that the material enjoys. Travel need not mean packaged tours only, news need not necessarily mean strident spectacle; refinement in products needs to be valued and taste needs to count for something. As things stand, the market is a poor advertisement for itself, for it suggests that beneath the vast array of options, there is no option to a fundamental and all pervasive sameness.     India is, by all accounts, today a market without price. Price needs to measure worth in several different ways; there must be room for mystery in price. Within its limitations, the price of a thing can reflect its hidden depths and allow us to measure its worth with greater sensitivity. We pay more for a work of art because we recognize that beauty cannot be valued in exactly the same ways as onions, but we still fix the price depending on the size of the painting. Markets need mystery; consumption needs to augment the statistical with the poetic and the classificatory with the expressive. We exist because we consume; but unless we are able to consume things that elevate us and allow us to reach higher and feel ennobled every once in a while, the market ends up reducing us to our shallowest and most unattractive versions.     At its best, the market is far from being perfect, but what we are seeing today is the market functioning very close to its worst form. The good news is that there are some early signs of change. At the margins, fuelled by younger, fresher imaginations, new ideas of travel, art, journalism, cinema, food and literature are emerging. We are beginning to see a fertile coming together of different disciplines and efforts to find richer meanings in the world we live in and consume. We might live, as a great poet said, in a material world, but there is room for some beauty, refinement and grace even in this world, and it is time that the market finds it.     santoshdesai1963@indiatimes.com 
EXTRA ORDINARY ISSUE Our new aide memories     Iasked Ishita about a bagel shop in Pune last weekend and she said it was near Kayani Bakery. Where’s that? I asked. Why, where the bomb blast happened! she said. I gently corrected her: That wasn’t Kayani; it was German Bakery. But what struck me was how differently we remember things today.     The week before, a friend who owns the world’s fastest growing fitness chain, called to say he was coming to Mumbai. He asked me if it was safe to stay at the Taj. I asked: Why? Can’t terrorists come in by the sea again? he said. He added, of course, that the idea excites his wife who loves adventure tourism and was dying to visit Karachi as well but he was a bit unsure if he wanted to be held at gunpoint or shot at. I told him it was fine. I could take his wife out for lunch to Leopold’s if she wants to see the pockmarked walls where Kasab and gang fired their AK47s.     Recently a driver came, looking for a job. He said he was from Fatehpur. My instant reaction was: Oh, where the Kalka Mail derailed in July? I forgot that Fatehpur was one of the few places where you can still find ruins of the Vedic era and the Gupta dynasty. That Hiuen Tsang had travelled there and written about it. All I remembered it by was a train disaster in which 100 people died, 300 were injured.     One remembers Vijaya Bank because its Chairman jumped off the terrace and killed himself when the Harshad Mehta scam broke, not because it was one of the first banks to launch credit cards in India. We think of Bihar as the state where a woman is raped every 15 minutes and a robbery is committed every 45 minutes, not as the state that produces the maximum IAS officers and may well produce India’s next Prime Minister if the NDA comes to power. We think of Azamgarh as a terror hub, seething with home grown insurgents, not as the birthplace of Kaifi Azmi, one of our finest poets. We see the North East as a bunch of troubled states where everyone is fighting everyone else and the Army is always out, not as one of the prettiest places in the world.     This is not just true of India. We know Somalia and Ethiopia by their famines and coups, not their great historical trading links with Indian merchants over centuries. We have forgotten that Pakistan was once a part of us and we shared a common culture and history. We now refer to it as the cradle of terrorism. When we talk of Pakistani cricket, we forget Imran Khan and Wasim Akram and judge them by their tainted bowlers, Mohammed Amir and Asif. Kasab is Pakistan for us, not Faiz. Just as Fukushima is Japan for us. Not Haruki Murakami.     I am no admirer of Narendra Modi but I find he has more besotted followers in his home state than     any Chief Minister in India. This is quite an achievement when you realise that he has been around for over a decade, by which time voters are usually dying to get rid of the incumbent Government. During this period, Modi has revamped Gujarat and made it the No 1 state in terms of industrial growth. Yet we remember him only by the 2002 riots. When he recently tried to apologise with a Sadbhavana fast, we all mocked him.     We remember Rajiv by Bofors and the anti Sikh riots. Just as we remember Mrs Gandhi by the Emergency. We remember VP Singh by the anti Mandal agitations where young men immolated themselves and Deve Gowda for falling asleep in meetings. We remember Laloo Prasad for the fodder scam, not for standing up to Advani’s rath yatra. We remember the CPM Government in West Bengal by Nandigram and Singur, not by the impeccable integrity of its Chief Ministers like Jyoti Basu and Buddhadeb Bhattacharjee.     At this rate, Mumbai will remembered only by its potholes and Maharashtra by the fact that 77 babies die of hunger here every day. And UPA2 by the 2G scam and the price of onions, not the economic reforms Manmohan Singh promised us.     (Views expressed by columnists in     Bombay Times are their own,     and not that of the paper.)
Food inflation inches up to 9.13% New Delhi: Rising prices of essential kitchen items like potato and pulses pushed food inflation closer to the double-digit mark at 9.13% for the week ended September 17.     Food inflation, as measured by the wholesale price index (WPI), was 8.84% in the previous reporting week.     “(Food inflation)... is perilously close to double digits. These fluctuations are taking place and it is one of the areas of grave concern,” finance minister Pranab Mukherjee told reporters here.     As per the commerce ministry data, prices of onions eased marginally, while gram, masoor, arhar, urad and poultry rates firmed up, on an annual basis.     As per the WPI data, inflation in eggs, meat and fish eased to 13.17% during the week as against 28.7%, year-on-year. While onion prices was down to 17% from 22% last year, potato prices rose 15%. PTI
EXCEPTION HERE
In era of limits, Jobs was last great tyrant From Gadgets He Built To Clothes He Wore, Everything That Has A Touch Of Tech Guru Becomes Part Of His Cult David Streifeld San Francisco: The first time Steve Jobs ever bullied anyone was in the third grade. He and some pals “basically destroyed” the teacher, he once said.     For the next half-century, Jobs never let up. He chewed out subordinates and partners who failed to deliver, trashed competitors who did not measure up and told know-it-all pundits to take a hike. He had a vision of greatness that he wielded to reshape the computer, telephone and entertainment industries, and he would brook no compromise.     Maybe it is only the despair people feel about the stagnating American economy, but the announcement of the death of the Apple cofounder on Wednesday seemed to mark the end of something: in an era of limits, Jobs was the last great tyrant.     Even in Silicon Valley, where corporate chieftains are frequently larger than life, and soul-enhancing technology is promised with the morning e-mail, there was no one quite like him. He used his powers to make devices that are beloved by their owners in a way that very few American products manage to achieve, especially these days. “Amid the oceans of enforced mediocrity in the bland, deflavorized culture of managed-bycommittee corporate behemoths,” the entrepreneur Perry Metzger posted on his Google+ page, Jobs “showed that the real path to excellence was excellence — that you could do great things by, who would have imagined, being smart and having excellent taste and not ever settling for second best.”     After his death became public, there was a waterfall of emotion on Twitter and blogs. Fans gathered outside Jobs’s house in Palo Alto, Calif., and they placed candles and flowers in front of Apple stores everywhere. His house is in the center of town, easy to find and rather modest for a guy worth about $6.5 billion. He was planning another house, but even that seemed like it would be relatively restrained for a lord of Silicon Valley.     Where he was unrestrained was in his work. Stories of him forcefully telling Apple employees that a product was not good enough are legion. (“You’ve baked a really lovely cake,” he told one engineer, adding that the hapless fellow had used dog feces for frosting). Make it smaller and better, he commanded. No element of design was too minor to escape his notice. (On a Mac interface: “We made the buttons on the screen look so good you’ll want to lick them.”)     Jobs castigated competitors, particularly Microsoft. Bill Gates’s company, which dwarfed Apple in power and wealth during the 1980s and 1990s, was not even described as second rate; it was deemed third-rate. Worse, it was not even trying. “The only problem with Microsoft is they just have no taste,” Jobs said in a typical broadside. “They have absolutely no taste. And I don’t mean that in a small way, I mean that in a big way, in the sense that they don’t think of original ideas, and they don’t bring much culture into their products.”     This is not the sort of unvarnished comment you ever hear the founders of Google, say, publicly expressing about Mark Zuckerberg, the founder of Facebook, or vice versa. “We’re mourning Steve because we don’t have much of his passion and directness in corporate life these days,” said Jay Elliot, a former Apple executive who has written a book about learning from Jobs’s lessons in leadership. “He wasn’t driven by the stock price.” Like many big tech companies, Apple has a formidable public relations staff, but Jobs was not constrained by this either. People knew his e-mail — “sjobs@apple.com” — and sent him queries and complaints. He often responded, if tersely. A persistent effort by a college student complaining about her inability to get information from the famously reticent PR staff finally elicited a testy “please leave us alone.”     Jobs’s self-confidence could sometimes be indistinguishable from arrogance and self-aggrandizement. At an Apple Halloween party during the wild early years, he reportedly came dressed as Jesus. (In a rare tribute for a lay person, Jobs’s career was celebrated Thursday on the front page of the Vatican newspaper.) But it was an arrogance tempered by faith in the power of technology to improve lives.     The satirical newspaper The Onion underscored this point nicely in its news story on Jobs’s death. The headline, modified here to replace an expletive, said: “Last American Who Knew What the Heck He Was Doing Dies.”     Funny, but it is deep in the nature of Silicon Valley to challenge such sentiments. “I don’t want to take anything away from the guy, he was brilliant and uncompromising and wonderful, but there’s a level of adulation that goes beyond what is merited,” said Tim O’Reilly, chief executive of the tech publisher O’Reilly Media. “There will be revolutions and revolutionaries to come.” NYT NEWS SERVICE

Food inflation at 6-month high of 11.4% Prices Of Vegetables, Fruits And Protein Items Soar, May Fuel Further Rise In Rates TIMES NEWS NETWORK New Delhi: Food inflation quickened in mid-October as prices of vegetables soared, sustaining the pressure on overall inflation and the Reserve Bank of India.     Data released by the commerce and industry ministry on Thursday showed food inflation at a six-month high of 11.43% in the week to October 15, accelerating from the previous week’s 10.60%. It stood at 14.20% in the same year-ago period.     Food inflation was last this high on April 9 when it was recorded at 11.53%.     In the March-October period, the price of food articles has risen by 12.1%, compared with 9.6% for the same period a year ago. Stubbornly high inflation and steadily rising interest rates have played havoc with household budgets.     Economists said Thursday’s food inflation number was a concern. “The headline number is worrisome. Going forward, The base effect may have an impact on food inflation in November and December but if we start off on a high plane it might be difficult to bring it down to the comfort zone even with a strong base effect,” said Samiran Chakraborty, economist at StanChart Bank.     Prices of vegetables rose 25% year-on-year during the week under review, compared to a 17.59% annual increase in the previous week. Fruit prices were up 11.96% year-onyear while egg, meat, fish prices rose an annual 12.82%.     Price of pulses, which had shown some signs of easing earlier due to improved supplies, have started to climb. tnn During the week to October 15, price of pulses rose an annual 9.06%. In the previous week, it had gone up by 7.42%. But the price of onions, which had soared previously, eased significantly. It fell 18.93% in the week to October 15, continuing its downward trend witnessed in the past few weeks. Prices of protein-based items have been stubborn for more than a year as demand remains strong due to rising incomes and dietary changes.     The Reserve Bank of India has identified inflation as the top policy challenge. “Inflation continues to be a major macroeconomic concern. The headline WPI inflation has remained stubbornly high, averaging 9.6% during the financial year so far. Inflation has been broad-based, and driven by all the three major groups, primary articles, fuel and power and manufactured products,” RBI said in its monetary policy review.     “As indicated in the First Quarter Review, both the level and persistence of inflation remain a cause for concern. Of larger concern is the fact that even with the visible moderation in growth, inflation has persisted,” the central bank said.
A visit to the food bazaar will burn a hole in your wallet Bella Jaisinghani | TNN     An unexplained paradox between bumper crop and record retail prices continues to plague the Indian consumer. The cost of daily essentials rose to new highs over Diwali. In fact, the record food inflation rate of 11.43% that was released the same day reflects how the prices of bare essentials continue to break the back of the common man.     Tomato has come to cost Rs 30-40 per kg, up from the average rate of Rs 10-12. Irrespective of whether exports are halted or resumed, onion costs Rs 20 per kg. Housewives are agonized over the ever-increasing price of groundnut oil, which touched an all-time high of Rs 138 per litre shortly before Diwali, up four rupees from the previous month. Sugar and milk, so important to the festival menu, have risen to Rs 35 per kg and Rs 48 per litre in parts of the city. “Tomato and onion have aggravated the situation. In any case, common vegetables like cluster beans and cauliflower have plateaued to new highs of Rs 50-60 per kg, making it impossible to sustain the household budget,” says Avani Shah who lives in Borivli. “Fresh green peas at Rs 160 per kg still remain a dream. The only affordable items at Rs 25-30 per kg seem to be brinjal and cabbage.”     As commodity markets continue to dictate the availability and cost of essential items, each worn-out mechanism to curb price rise has failed the citizens, say experts. “It does not matter whether or not the RBI raises interest rates 13 times in 18 months or whether the government stops or resumes the export of onion. These are knee-jerk measures that will not work,” says activist Ashok Nayak. “What the authorities need to do is crack down on hoarding and artificial price rise effected by retailers.” The retail price of pulses could rise once more given that the government recently hiked procurement rates by several hundred rupees per quintal. “We need to address larger issues of agricultural productivity rather than pamper influential groups of farmers by indulging in vote bank politics,” Nayak says.     Garlic after arriving to its mean of Rs 60-70 per kg early this year has risen once more to Rs 120-160. “There is a bumper crop of garlic so there is no question of shortage,” says Mahek Shah, a wholesaler from Vashi. Experts say the inordinately high rates witnessed in 2009-10 were prompting farmers to hold on to stocks in the hope of a better price, although rates could fall soon given that garlic is perishable.
Bumper crop, yet fruit & veggie prices pinching Bella Jaisinghani TNN Mumbai: As the city’s spirits soared on Diwali, so did the prices of vegetables and fruits, which are retailing at record highs despite an overall bumper crop. Items like tomatoes and onions, the most basic ingredients of Indian food, are selling at Rs 30-40 and Rs 20 per kg respectively. It was only a couple of months ago that the prices of these items had normalized to around Rs 10-12 per kg after the food inflation of 2010. The price of garlic has doubled since February this year to cost Rs 120-160. Common vegetables like cluster beans and cauliflower are retailing at Rs 50-60 per kg while fresh green peas, always on the steep side, is at a pinching Rs 160 per kg.     Fruits have become a luxury, from the street corners to the hypermalls. Medium-sized pomegranates that usually cost Rs 40-50 per kg are selling at Rs 200 per kg in Crawford Market and Lokhandwala Complex. Watermelons are now retailing at Rs 80-160 a piece, a 128-200% price rise in less than a year. Apples, custard apples and pineapples are also pinching the Mumbaikar hard.
New Menu @ West View: The Grill Room, ITC Maratha, Andheri (E) Select from an array of dishes that include grills like Cold Smoked Red Snapper, Norwegian Salmon, Vietnamese Basa, Caribbean Pineapple Steaks, Pumpkin Steaks with Aubergine Caponta, desserts like Anise perfumed Red Wine poached Pear and Marzipan Tart, Home Churned Ices (Sweet Lime and Vodka, Sour Cherry and Quark Cheese, Chocolate Chip and Marshmallow) and more. Tel: 2830 3030 Dim Sum Food Festival @ Sampan, Novotel Mumbai, Juhu The festival’s menu includes a wide assortment of vegetarian and non-vegetarian dim sums like Monk Vegetable (Bamboo shoot, Black Mushroom, Carrot, Baby Corn), Trio Mushroom (Black Mushroom, Shitake and White Fungus) and more to non vegetarian options like Gau Chi Gau (mince Chicken and Chives wrapped with Chinese flour), Crystal Shrimp Sui Mai (with Shallots and Chinese Mushrooms) and lot more. Tel: 6693 4444 Barbeque Dinner @ Saptami, Sakinaka There’s Grilled Sea Scallop Kebabs with Housing Sauce, Pernoid scented Flambé Prawns, Barbeque Duxelle stuffed Lamb Loin, Chicken peri-peri and more. Tel: 40851800 New Menu @ Penne, Juhu Relish dishes likes Cream Cheese Roasted Potatoes, Cottage Cheese Tuscany, Calamari Fritters, Breaded Chicken Tenders, the Salmone Alferri, Wood grilled Barramundi, Pomfret Mediterranean and more. Tuck into the succulent New Zealand Lamb Rack, Cube Steak Piedmont and Chicken Dijonaise among others. Tel: 2625 5713 New Menu @ Opa, Juhu Tara Road The Mediterranean delights include Greek Salad with Spanakopita, Lobster Risotto, Crab cake with Pineapple Salsa, Curried Remoulade and Herb Salad among others. The martinis and coolers include Grape Mélange, Pomegranate and Cinnamon Martini, Grapefruit and Celery Cooler. Tel: 6769 9966 New Menu @ The Asian Kitchen, Four Points by Sheraton, Vashi The assorted blend includes specialties like Fish Amritsar, Ghost ki Biryani, Patrani Macchi, Neer Dosa, Khandvi, Khaman Dhokla, some Goan curries among other delicacies. Tel: 2781 7777 Rock n Roll Menu @ Hard Rock Cafe, Worli The menu includes some brilliant options like Vegetarian Burger, Mesto Veggie Sandwich and more. The Non –Vegetarian includes Grilled Chicken Sandwich, Chicken Curry among others.Tel: 2438 2888 Compiled by, Art: Zeenia F Baria, Theatre: Tanya Datta, Wine, Dine and Gigs: Simi Kuriakose
Food inflation spurts to 9-mth high of 12.21% FM Blames ‘Dangerously’ High Pace Of Price Rise On Festive Season Demand TIMES NEWS NETWORK New Delhi: Pricey vegetables, egg, meat, fish and pulses pushed food inflation to a nine-month high at 12.21% in late October, prompting the finance minister to say that it was dangerously above double digits.     Data released by the commerce and industry ministry on Thursday showed food inflation had shot up to 12.21% in the week to October 22, rising from 11.43% in the previous week as prices remained stubborn. After hovering above 9% for nearly a year, food inflation remained in double digits for the third consecutive week, data showed.     Prices of vegetables continued to remain strong and maintained their rising trend since September. It rose 28.89% year-on-year in the week to October 22. In the previous week, prices of vegetables had risen an annual 25%. Egg, meat and fish prices rose 13.36% year-on-year while prices of pulses which had displayed some easing in previous weeks rose 11.6%. Onion prices, which had emerged as a pressure point previously, continued their downtrend and fell an annual 20.33%.     “Food inflation is still going high. It is dangerously above double digit figure,” finance minister Pranab Mukherjee said. He attributed the sharp increase in food prices to festival season demand. He said the price situation was a matter of grave concern.     “This (high food inflation) is the effect of festive season demand. November onwards, the trend for remaining four months (of the fiscal) would be available,” he said. Policymakers have been caught on the wrong foot on inflation and their estimate has been way off the mark several times.     Experts have been urging a sustained approach to raise supplies of vegetables, milk, egg, meat and fish. Demand for these items has shot up in recent times due to rising incomes and changing dietary preferences. But despite promises of improving supplies, the situation on the ground has remained unchanged.     “The rise in food inflation was not unexpected as the hike in diesel prices has led to an increase in cost push inflation for food items. Festival demand too has contributed to the increase,” said N R Bhanumurthy, professor, National Institute of Public Finance and Policy. Times View     The latest data on food inflation confirms what we as consumers already knew — prices remain high despite the government’s repeated promises that they will come down soon. This is a matter of serious concern, particularly since high food prices hurt the poor most and also upset the budgets of middle class households. The government must act with urgency to deal with the situation. Clearly, monetary policy is not having the desired impact. What is needed is raising supplies of food, through imports if necessary in the short run. Over the longer term, enhancing productivity should be the mantra. Talk of a second green revolution has been on for years, but there is little on the ground to show for all that talk. The sustained bout of double-digit food inflation should serve as a wake-up call for policymakers. High inflation: Cos settle for lower margins Mumbai: With food inflation touching a nine-month high of 12.21% for the week ended October 22, companies operating in the sector will have to contend with lower margins. In a bid to protect their margins from getting eroded, companies are adopting a strict discipline towards cost consciousness and are also ensuring that supply chains become more efficient. As they declare a war on costs, another strategy being deployed is to cut out extra flab from business and operations.     “This trend (rising inflation) is worrying as we were expecting food inflation to taper off in the Oct-Dec quarter. We believe that a continuous period of high food inflation combined with other inflationary pressures and a high interest regime could dampen consumption growth in the near term. This will leave a cascading impact on negating any potential margin improvement in most of the sectors,” said Harsh Mariwala, CMD, Marico. Bimal Thakkar, MD, ADF Foods, said, “The rise in input costs is a concern for everyone. However, companies cannot pass on the full price increase because of competition and a tight economic environment. Therefore, an adverse effect on margins of companies can be expected.’’ Said Balram Yadav, managing director, Godrej Agrovet, “As incomes have gone up, so has consumption. A lot of money is pouring in through government scheme like NREGA and people are consuming more fruits and vegetables. However, production has not kept pace with consumption. This is partly responsible for stoking food inflation which is at an unprecedented level.’’     A shift towards a high-protein diet as a result of growing prosperity is another reason for the rise in food prices. `Protein intake has increased as people are consuming more milk, eggs and fish. However, production cannot be raised over night. It will take time to bridge the gap,’’ said R S Sodhi, managing director, Gujarat Co-operative Milk Marketing Federation, the marketer of Amul’.     Sodhi, however, said with respect to milk, thanks to a good rainfall and better availability of fodder, prices are likely to remain stable for the next 8-12 months.
FO O D COURT On your plate, a 24-carat gold lobster Hotels are tempting guests with exotica – from delicacies like toxic Japanese fish to exorbitantly priced white truffles. And, yes, flowers that bloom in your tea Pooja Kashyap |     High-end hotels are going to great lengths these days. And they are matching excellent with exotic to bring in the customers who matter — from the scions of some of the top industrial houses of the country to the self made man who carries the recommendations of his friends to every Friday night dinner.     The dishes — and the ingredients used in them — are often so extraordinary that they can sometimes even be labeled bizarre. For instance, The Lalit Ashok in Bangalore prepares the ‘char fired lobster with 24-carat gold’ for its guests on special order. The dish consists of lobster coated with melted slivers of gold and sugar, and is priced at a whopping Rs 25,000. “Recently, we served this during a three-course dinner for a couple,” says Nimish Bhatia, executive chef of the hotel.     In fact, seafood throws up quite a few colourful dishes. Like fugu — a Japanese puffer fish known for its toxicity. If not prepared properly, it can kill the eater within minutes. For those adventurous enough to try it, Mumbai’s Four Seasons has a licensed chef — one of the few outside Japan who can prepare it. Saikat Ghosh, who has sampled fugu, compares the experience to an adrenaline rush. “It is a great high to eat something like this. How many people can say that they have flirted with poison?”     The thrill of savouring something unique often prompts many to try out dishes that most of us may not have even heard about. And hotels are ready to oblige. For a price, of course. At Delhi’s Taj Mahal hotel, truffles — one of the most expensive edible fungus in the world — are served to guests whipped up with eggs in the ‘truffle and mushroom omelette’. The hotel’s chef says that they can also serve the extremely rare white truffle — whose price at Rs 48,000 per kg matches its exclusivity. That’s not all. Sevruga, one of the most exquisite varieties of caviar is available to the discerning connoisseur at Rs 9,000 per 100 gms. And there is no dearth of takers. Manish Mittal, a businessman who heard about it from a chef friend, has sampled it quite a few times and can now point out the subtle differences in taste. “If the caviar comes from older fish, it is much more tastier,” he says.     Another favourite of fish lovers is the Big Eye Tuna. Used as an ingredient to prepare an interesting dish called Tuna Toro, it is priced at Rs 7,600 per kg. The ‘otoro’ — the belly part of a heavy 200 kg tuna, is another unusual ingredient, used in an assorted sashimi platter and priced at an astronomical Rs 20,000 per kg. In India, Bang alore’s ITC Gardenia serves it only on request. It has had a few takers, among them Chennai-based entrepreneur Naveen Dass, who flies down to Bangalore whenever he feels “the yearning for it.”     The exotica label applies to not just foreign delicacies, it can also extend to desi dishes — especially when they get a fusion tadka. In the kitchens of The Oberoi Gurgaon, foie gras or fattened goose liver—a delicacy since Roman times — has got a new twist. Amaranta, the hotel’s coastal restaurant, serves masala foie gras marinated and cooked with curry leaf and pepper and served wrapped in banana leaf.     Another unique plate gives you a fusion of olives with a traditional Malayalee dish. Christened ‘Olive and Basel Paniyaram’, it is served with jalapeno and mango salsa. “You will find the original dish only in few of the houses down south,” says head chef Saneesh Varghese. After the fusion makeover, guests are lapping it up as an exotic cocktail snack.     For health freaks, a bevy of ingredients bursting with antioxidants and phytonutrients — beneficial compounds derived from plants — are the order of the day. Known as superfoods, typical dishes served in hotels like The Westin, Gurgaon, include granola and berry muesli or pineapple juice mixed with spirulina — a species of micro-algae, which is an excellent source of essential minerals. And this out of the ordinary stuff also applies to beverages, notably flavoured teas. “We serve rare teas like the Jing tea, which is seldom seen outside its country of origin,” says Sanjay Sharma, complex general manager, The Westin Gurgaon. Flavours on offer are Jasmine Chun Hao, Jing Earl Grey and Flowering Jasmine. “More than the taste, it’s the look that enamors you,” says Smriti, a regular at the hotel. “The way the tea leaves open up in a cup of hot water is, well, unbelievable.”     pooja.kashyap@timesgroup.com     (Additional reporting by Anshul Dhamija in Bangalore; Prithvijit Mitra in Kolkata, and Pronoti Datta in Mumbai) GOLD-CRUSTED LOBSTER INGREDIENTS 6 gold stars (24-carat) 1 pc black Perigord truffle 1 pc white Alba truffle 2 pcs morel mushroom 1 king lobster 30 gms onion 20 gms celery 20 ml lemon juice White of 2 eggs Salt METHOD Wash and clean lobster. Take out the tail meat, mix with lemon juice, onion, celery and salt. Place it in the oven for baking. Whisk egg white till it gets fluffy. Pour on the baked lobster and put in the salamander. Now, stick gold stars on it, place sliced black Perigord and white Alba truffle and morel mushroom. Make sure these have been sautéed and seasoned well before they are placed. Serve hot SASHIMI PLATTER INGREDIENTS Daikon (Japanese radish) Sisho (a variety of Japanese green leaf) Otoro (belly part of a Hon Maguro tuna) PREPARATION Take a chilled plate and place fresh daikons. Vertically set the sisho on the daikons. Now, add five finely cut pieces of otoro. Serve with wasabi and soya sauce
J U G U L A R V E I N That’s just fine Inflation has finally caught up with the law as well Jug Suraiya Everyone is beset by inflation. The aam admi is beset by rising food prices. The not-so-aam admi by rising fuel costs. The notat-all-aam admi by the rising price of gold. What’ll be hit next? Diamonds? Platinum? Anjolie Ela Menon paintings? Is nothing sacred, nothing safe from the demon called inflation?     There was indeed something out of the reach of the evil clutches of inflation. No matter how the price of anything you cared to name – and even of not a few which you didn’t care to name – shot up like a cat with a scalded tail, one thing bucked the trend and remained, in India at least, as cheap as it ever was. This exception was something called the law, which sometimes also went under aliases like ‘rules’ and ‘regulations’. The law, along with its aliases, was the only bulwark that withstood the onslaught of inflation. Veggies, daal, chawal, roti, kapda, makaan, petrol, LPG cylinders could, and did, become costlier and costlier. The law – or rather, the penalty attached to breaking it – remained as cut-price as always, by far the best bargain in town.     So downright dirt cheap was the law that anyone and everyone – aam admi, amir admis, and all the various admis in between – could afford to break it if not with impunity then at least with what might be called minimum punity, a puny punity as it were. Wherever you looked, people – young people, old people, rich people, poor people – were blissfully breaking the law, secure in the knowledge that, unlike fossil fuels and other items of scarce supply, there was no dearth of the darn thing to break or otherwise do with as you wished.     This was particularly true of a branch of law known as traffic laws. Lokmanya Tilak famously said: Swaraj is my birthright, and i shall have it. Just as famously, the post-Independence Indian said: Anarchy is my roadright, and i shall have it. Students of chaos theory can find no better example to turn to than the average Indian road. Except that on the average Indian road chaos is not theory, it is practice. Daily, 24x7 practice.     Cars, buses, rickshaws, trucks, two-wheelers, three-wheelers, handpulled carts, street dogs, stray cows, strayer pedestrians, all come together in a celebration of chaos, an abundance of anarchy, breaking every law in the book and not a few which aren’t in the damn thing but what the heck, let’s break ’em anyway while we’re at it. After all, it’s cheap enough. As a nation we might not be able to afford schools, and hospitals, and bijli, and paani, and three square meals a day. The one thing we can afford is thumbing our collective nose at traffic laws. So, be like Nike. Just do it. Feel literally free to break the law. It’s free of charge. Or almost so. But, no longer. Thanks to a spoilsport sarkar, inflation is soon going to catch up with the law. Or rather, with the breaking of it. The Delhi administration is planning to increase by as much as 400% the fines payable for various traffic violations. The fine for jumping a red light (You mean to say that those things that blink on and off are there to control traffic? Well, well what do you know. Here i’ve been going around all these years thinking they were leftover Diwali illuminations) is to go up from . 100 to 500. Driving without a licence (Licence? What licence? Don’t you know the licence raj ended with economic liberalisation?) will be upped from 500 to 2,000. Drunk driving (But i mowed down those 20 people only because i had to swerve to avoid hitting the pink elephant sitting in the middle of the road) will escalate from 2,000 to 4,500.     What Delhi does today, the rest of India will do tomorrow. Inflation will catch up with traffic fines. Anarchy will become as expensive as onions, chaos as costly as kaddus. There’s only one hope. When the cop tries to give you a challan for 500 (driving without helmet) slip him 50 bucks and tell him to keep the challan and add it to his kid’s challan collection. Fight inflation: bribe. Which, for all concerned, will be just fine.     jug.suraiya@timesgroup.com     http://blogs.timesofindia.indiatimes.com/jugglebandhi/ 
Sena sells cheap greens T he women’s wing of the Shiv Sena has been selling vegetables, especially onions, at wholesale prices in Bhayander (E) since Thursday. This is due to the high cost of veggies. TNN
Sensex up 360 pts on easing by central banks TIMES NEWS NETWORK Mumbai: A global rally backed by a concerted move by several central banks to make it easier to supply cash to the struggling European banks had a positive impact on Dalal Street as well with the sensex rallying 360 points higher to 16,484 on Thursday, a two-week closing high. The day’s gains were backed by foreign fund buying with net FII inflows at Rs 687 crore.     The monetary easing steps by the global central banks, combined with the strong rally in the stock market, boosted the rupee too as it closed at 51.47 to a dollar, stronger by 74 paise, its biggest single session gain in over twoand-half years. The latest auction of government securities for FIIs, which attracted good interest from foreign fund managers, also boosted sentiments as this would lead to inflow of dollar into the country and could help ease the pressure on the Indian currency, dealers said.     The day’s session started with the sensex up about 450 points and rallied to an intraday high of 16,718, up nearly 600 points from Wednesday’s close. However, selling in the second half of the session pulled the index down to an intra-day low of 16,430 and it closed near that level. Given that US markets were also showing weak trends early in the session, market players here said unless foreign funds buy aggressively, it will be difficult for the market to continue to rally further from the current levels.     One of the highlights of the day’s trading was the rally in pharma major Ranbaxy after it said it got the US regulatory nod to launch the generic version of Lipitor, the world’s best selling drug, till recently the patent for which was with Pfizer. In Thursday’s strong market, Ranbaxy rose 2.1% to close at Rs 444 but analysts are divided if the strength of the stock could sustain.     Among the sensex stocks, Hindalco was the top gainer, closing 7% higher at Rs 131. Other gainers were ICICI Bank, up 6.8% at Rs 762 and Sterlite, up 6.2% at Rs 105. Sharp fall in food inflation New Delhi: Food inflation dropped to a four-month low of 8% as on November 19, reflecting fall in prices of essential items like onions, potatoes and wheat giving relief to common-man, while rates for rice and vegetables increased at a moderate pace.     Decline in food inflation may also give respite to the government which is facing heat from the Opposition on various issues, including the price rise. This is lowest since July 16 when food inflation was 7.16%. Food inflation, as measured by the Wholesale Price Index (WPI), was 9.01% in the previous week ended November 12. It stood at 9.03% in the period in the previous year, corresponding to the week-ended November 19, 2011. A relieved finance minister Pranab Mukherjee said, “If this trend continues, perhaps we may have the year-end inflation at around 6-7%.” Onions became cheaper by 40.65% year-on-year during the week under review, while potato prices were down by 10.98%. Wheat prices also fell by 4.71%.     There was respite for the households as rice increased only by 2.52% and vegetables by 5.13%. Inflation with regard to vegetables which are also affected by seasonal factors had remained in double digit in past months. However, prices of protein based items such as milk, egg, meat and fish kept rising by double digit. The fall in inflation could also have a positive spin-off for the industry and the middle class borrowers since it sends a signal to the Reserve Bank for a pause in the interest rates hike. RBI will review the interest rates on December 16. “The RBI is expected to keep its policy rates unchanged in the midquarter review of monetary policy,” ICRA Economist Aditi Nayar said.As a result of moderation in food inflation, the rate of price rise of all the primary articles saw an annual moderation to 7.74% from 14.32%. It was 9.08% in the previous week ended November 12. AGENCIES
NEWS DIGEST HC asks CBI to probe Ishrat fake encounter The Gujarat High Court has asked the CBI to take over the investigation into the Ishrat Jahan fake encounter case, saying it could not trust either the SIT or the state police to do a credible job. The SIT has been asked to file a fresh FIR within two weeks. P 11 Chandolia gets bail as ‘case not akin to Raja’s’ A special CBI court on Thursday granted bail to R K Chandolia, former private secretary to ex-telecom minister A Raja, in the 2G spectrum case. Chandolia’s case cannot be equated to that of Raja or the other jailed bureaucrat, Siddharth Behura, the court said. P 13 Wadala RTO to crack down on rigged meters The Wadala RTO has decided to launch a fresh campaign against tampered meters from Monday with a special gadget to measure the extent of tampering. The instrument can detect tampering in meters within minutes, officials said. Errant drivers can be fined anywhere between Rs 500 and Rs 2,400. P 2 Sensex surges by 360 points to 2-week high The sensex shot up by 360 points to a two-week high of 16,483 on Friday, taking a cue from strong global markets. Central bankers worldwide have agreed to help in easing the euro zone debt crisis. The rupee closed at 51.47 to a dollar on Thursday, stronger by 74 paise. P 19 Airport cabbies may go on flash strike today Drivers of black-and-yellow taxis at the domestic airport have threatened to go on a flash strike on Friday morning to protest against a new private AC taxi stand being inaugurated at the terminal. The AC taxis will ply on share basis directly from the airport to Pune for Rs 375, excluding the toll tax. P 3 RBI implements credit default swap norms The guidelines on credit default swaps (CDS)—derivative instruments that allow lenders to pass on the credit risk to others—became effective from Thursday. This will enable a banker who is comfortable with a client’s credit profile but without adequate funds to facilitate a loan through CDS. P 19 Food inflation falls to four-month low Food inflation dropped to a four-month low of 8 per cent as on November 19, owing to a fall in prices of onion, potatoes and wheat. P 20 World’s first sex college opens in Vienna The world’s first college on applied sexuality has opened in Vienna, Austria. Anyone above the age of 16 can seek admission in the college to obtain a diploma in sex. P 18 
Food inflation at 3-yr low of 6.6% TIMES NEWS NETWORK New Delhi: Food inflation eased significantly in late November as prices of vegetables, onions, potatoes and other items softened due to improved supplies, providing relief for policymakers who are grappling with a difficult economic situation.     Data released by the commerce and industry ministry on Thursday showed food inflation moderated to a more than three-year low at 6.60% in the week to November 26, easing from the previous week’s 8%. It stood at 6.19% in the week to August 9, 2008.     Stubbornly high food prices have posed a serious challenge for policymakers and upset household budgets. High food prices have also led to protests. Food inflation has hovered around double digits for a significant period while overall inflation is still near double digits.     Finance minister Pranab Mukherjee defended the government strategy to deal with price pressures and said retail prices of 30 essential commodities, including that of rice, wheat and pulses, had either fallen or had registered a marginal increase during the past two years.     “It is not correct to say that government has not done anything,” Mukherjee told the Rajya Sabha on Thursday.     Economists said the downtrend in food prices and slowing growth could prompt the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) to pause in its interest rate tightening cycle. The RBI will undertake a policy review next week and most experts say they expect the central bank to hold rates at current levels. The RBI has raised interest rates 13 times since March 2010 to calm price pressures but they have remained stubborn.     The latest data showed vegetable prices fell an annual 1.25% in the week to November 26 after rising sharply for the past few weeks. Onion prices continued to decline and fell 39.20% year-onyear while potato prices were down an annual 15.75%. Prices of milk, egg, meat and fish continued to remain firm.     The index for food articles group declined by 1% to 193.8 from 195.7 for the previous week due to lower prices of fish-inland and jowar (3% each), fruits and vegetables, condiments and spices, masur and urad (2% each) and fish-marine, poultry chicken, barley and moong (1% each). But prices of ragi (3%), pork (2%) and gram, mutton, maize, egg and arhar (1% each) moved up.     Policymakers expect overall inflation to ease to 6-7% range by end-March but economists say it will hover above the comfort level. On Thursday, ratings agency Crisil marginally revised upwards its forecast for inflation in 2011-12 to 9.2% from the previous 9.1%.     “This is because the continuous weakening of the rupee has exerted additional pressure on the imported component of inflation. We now expect the rupee to end the fiscal year at a lower value of Rs 48 per dollar as compared to the earlier forecast of Rs 45-46 per dollar. This will keep inflation at higher levels than expected earlier,” said Dharmakirti Joshi, chief economist at Crisil.
Food inflation at 4-yr low of 4.35% TIMES NEWS NETWORK NewDelhi:The sharp fall in vegetable prices in the neighbourhood market is now showing in the food inflation numbers, which fell to a near four-year low of 4.35% in the week-ended December 3, easing the burden on the government which has been battling criticism over the way it has handled the price situation.     The sharp fall from 10.63% in early November, was the result of prices of vegetables, potatoes, onions and wheat falling in the range of 4.43% to 46% due to better supplies. In some commodities such as potatoes which witnessed a 33% decline, farmers in several parts of the country are dumping the crop on the streets or letting it rot as there is a bumper harvest and cold storages are full with last year’s stocks. In certain cases such as onions, where prices were down 46% due to the high base seen a year ago also came to the rescue. Milk seemed to be the only sour point with prices rising 11%.     Food inflation stood at 6.6% in the previous week and 10.78% a year ago. The latest weekly food inflation number is the lowest since the week-ended February 23, 2008, when it was 4.28%. Buoyed by the steep decline in food prices, chief economic advisor Kaushik Basu said food inflation may go down below 3% in a month’s time. “I expect by the first week of January food inflation will go down below 3%.”     The sharp easing comes ahead of RBI’s review of monetary policy slated for Friday, where it is widely expected to hold key rates steady despite an anguished plea from the government to start cutting interest rates in the wake of falling GDP growth.
Just chill! Veggies are plenty and cheap Bella Jaisinghani TNN Mumbai:Bringing its annual respite from food inflation, the winter chill has halved vegetable prices across retail markets in the city. After months of waiting, tomatoes are available for a reasonable Rs 16-20 per kg, while cauliflower has dropped to Rs 30 from an average of Rs 60 earlier. In a rare treat, green peas are selling at Rs 25-28 per kg, down from the high three-digits.     Topping the list is tomato, which has come down around 50% from the Rs 20-30 it had cost during the past few months across suburban markets. Like onions, without which no Indian menu is complete, this essential vegetable usually costs Rs 10-12 per kg when in season. It remains to be seen when the optimum low will be reached.     On Sunday evening, the Andheri municipal market was a sight for sore eyes as cartloads of robust green peas disappeared before you could even utter mattar. Tall red carrots sweeten meals Mumbai: Cheap peas are painting the market green. Over the past four to five years, Mumbai has been getting its quota of affordable fresh peas only during winter. “During the rest of the year, we prefer to buy the frozen, shelled variety whose half-kg packs come for Rs 60. Fresh pods are rarely available, and moreover they cost an astronomical Rs 120-160 for poor quality lots,” said Borivli resident Anant Mehta.     Stacks of cauliflower and carrots, other winter specialties, were laid out on the kerb over the weekend, finding brisk buyers out to make the most of the brief spell of abundance. “From February through November, cauliflower sells for Rs 60 per kg. Today, it is available for Rs 30. The three months of winter bring a much-awaited respite to buyers,” said a vendor in Andheri.     Several households are likely to end their meals with the warm winter delicacy of gajar halwa for tall, red carrots have flooded the market as well. Unlike the stunted orange variety that sells for Rs 30 per kg on an average and is less versatile, this kind is naturally sweeter and lends itself to biryanis and desserts.     Leading the bunch of winter greens this season is the fragrant green garlic, which Sindhi and Gujarati households await all year. “For this reason, the best stir fries are prepared during November-December. It is the tender green stems rather than the pods that bring an aroma unmatched by other herbs,” says Archana Ramani. Available in abundance at all stalls this year, green garlic is selling for Rs 15 for 100gm.     However, other winter leaves have been relatively slow to arrive. Bunches of mustard await the company of bathua, while spinach and methi are yettoburstupon the scene as they do each year. For now,eachisselling atRs10 per bunch, although the mean drops to Rs 5 during the peak season.
Coastal Food Special @ Ankur, Fort     Enjoy delicious coastal food this Christmas as you have Konkan and Mangalorean Seafood like Sannae with Yeti Gassi (a Southern Kanara speciality of Prawns, cooked in Coconut based curry, served with Fluffy Rice Cakes or Steamed Rice), Jhingha Koliwada, Raavas Kalimari, Fish Kochi (Fish marinated in ginger paste, deliciously spiced), Crab Kerala, Lobster Tandoori, Stuffed Squids, Clams Butter Pepper, Ajadina (Fresh clams, cooked along with grated coconut, in a rich well tempered combination of traditional Indian spices) and more. Tel: 022-2265 4194 Christmas Treats @ Cinnabon, Carter Road     Enjoy an eggless menu this festive season and try the Classic Rolls, Caramel Pecanbons and more, also the beverages that include Mocha Latta Chills and Chillattas. Christmas Meal @ Cafe Casa Mia, Ghatkopar (W)     The menu includes Turnip and Tomato Soup, Leek and Jalapeno Stuffed Beet Ravioli, Roast Christmas Turkey (with Mushroom and Sausage Stuffing, baby potato, red wine), Classic Lamb Meat Pie (Oven roasted vegetables), Honey Mustard Roast Chicken, (Baby potatoes, carrots and beans), Plum Cake with Nutmeg custard, Virgin Strawberry Margarita and Mimosa among others. Tel: 022- 6524 1555
Food inflation falls to four-year low of 1.81% TIMES NEWS NETWORK New Delhi: Food inflation eased to a four-year low in mid-December due to improved supplies and lower prices of vegetables, potato, onion and wheat, bringing huge relief for the government which has been battling stubborn price pressures for more than a year. Data released by the commerce and industry ministry on Thursday showed food inflation stood at 1.81% in the week to December 10, lower than the previous week’s 4.35%. It stood at 13.22% in the same year-ago period. Food inflation had touched 2.26% in the week to February 9, 2008.     “The persistent high inflation for some time now is unacceptable. We have to steer the economy back to the path of fiscal consolidation,” prime minister Manmohan Singh told the meeting of his Council on Trade and Industry. “While purchasing power has gone up, the supply side response has so far been muted. We believe that with the policy focus on improving agricultural production and productivity, our economy will soon be able to step up the production of food articles, thereby controlling inflation in these products,” he said.     The latest data showed vegetable prices fell 26.37% year-on-year while potato prices were down 34.39%. Onion prices, which had shot sharply last year, fell an annual 49.38% while wheat prices were down 4.21%. Prices of fruits, eggs, meat and fish eased from the previous week but remained firm. Experts said arrival of fresh supplies had helped calm prices. The index for food articles group declined by 0.5% to 191.0 from 191.9 for the previous week due to lower prices of fruits and vegetables and condiments and spices (2% each) and ragi, tea and rice (1% each). But prices of jowar, gram and masur (2% each) and river fish, poultry chicken and sea fish (1% each) moved up.     Stubbornly high food inflation has remained a huge policy challenge for the UPA government for the past few years and has contributed to higher overall inflation. RBI has raised interest rates 13 times since March 2010 to tame price pressures. Policymakers have been wrong-footed several times while predicting the trend of food prices.
No tears over onions this yr Better Climate Leads To Crop Abundance Tushar Pawar TNN Nashik: Therewillbe noscarcity of onions this kharif season, as feared, according to experts. Last year, production was hit due to unseasonal rain, which led to a sharp rise in prices in December. The Centre had to import onions from neighbouring Pakistan andBangladesh.     This year, the monsoon was late by a month, causing a delay in thesowing of thekharif crop. Hence, this year’s estimate was that production would be reduced by 25% in Maharashtra and Gujarat, and up to 50% in Karnataka. Learning a lesson from last year, the Centre this year again banned exports on September 9. Farmers had stored the summer crop and started getting good prices (an average of Rs 1,100 per quintal). But they were annoyed with the ban. They agitated against the decision, after which the ban was lifted on September 20, but the minimum export prize was hiked to $450 per metrictonne.     This kharif season, though, the scene is not as bad; Karnataka and Gujarat, major producing states after Maharashtra, will have abundantcrops.     “Onions are weather-sensitive and climate changes affectthem. Unseasonal rains in October last year had damagedthekharif crop andledto a scarcity... But the scene is quite good this season due to better climate. Thecrop is also good in Gujarat and the cultivation area in Rajasthan has increased. There will be no scarcity this year. Onion production in the country is expected to be 1.5 crore metric tonnes in 2011-12, against 131 metric tonnes in 2010-11,” said Dr Satish R Bhonde, additional director, National Horticulture Research & Development Foundation.     A good monsoon may lead to a 15%higher acreagefor onions,Gujarat governmentofficials said. Dr S R Chaudhary, director of the state horticulture department, said, “Sowing is on due to a late winter. But acreagewillbehigher due to a good monsoon. Hence, there will be no pressure on pricesthis year.”     In Karnataka, prices crashed on high arrivals and farmers are demanding remunerative prices. Prices fell drastically, especially in the state’s northern region. Comparedtothecorresponding period in 2010-11, production increasedby 8.38%.     With inputs from Nayan     Dave (Ahmedabad) and N D     Shiva Kumar (Bangalore) Prices fall, Nashik farmer tries to kill self Nashik:The fresh arrival of onions has led to a sharp fall in prices in wholesale markets (Agriculture Produce Marketing Committees) in the district, prompting a farmer from Puri village in Chandwad tehsil in Nashik district Sahebrao Dhondiram Kekan to attempt suicide by consuming pesticide. Kekan, consumed pesticide on Wednesday and was admitted to the Nashik District Civil Hospital. Kekan was under debt of Rs 11 lakh. The falling prices of onions frustrated him and he thought of ending his life thinking that the onions cultivated by him would not even wipe off his debts. TNN
Ring It In Style Lavish Spreads, Babysitters To Add Cheer Hotels raise the bar for NEW YEAR REVELLERS Bella Jaisinghani I TNN     City hotels are pulling out all the stops to welcome new year celebrants on December 31. Arguably this is the time when business peaks, so a battery of festivity desks have been installed to hardsell every USP from Michelin chef to babysitter.     The feast at the Taj Mahal Palace spans an interesting range of Jekyll-and-Hyde dishes, from exotica to vada pav. Casablanca restaurant overlooking the Gateway of India is the last word in exclusivity as it puts out a single table for two for Rs 40,000 per couple.     “We serve a customised eight-course meal complete with the diners’ choice of flowers, colours, even a menu card with photographs if they wish. The Middle Eastern menu includes dishes from Syria, Turkey and Greece. Here too, the guest can indicate his choice of meats and vegetables. The chef personally serves each course,” says staff member Pooja Bailey. “Over at the Zodiac Grill, our grandmaster chef Hemant Oberoi has put out a premium menu comprising ham, Norwegian salmon and premier beverages for Rs 29,500 all-inclusive.”     Last-minute guests who have not made prior bookings can visit the Taj’s Sea Lounge for high tea which, interestingly, serves Mumbai’s street food for Rs 2,150 per person.     “The vegetarian fare has onion fritters, vada pav and pav bhaji while the non-vegetarian section offers fish fingers, lamb burgers and chicken kathi roll,” laughs Bailey, delighted at the shock she evokes with her menu reading. “There is a counter serving corn-on-the-cob.”     The Oberoi is raising a toast to its 25th anniversary celebration with star Michelin chef Vineet Bhatia and chef Vincenzo di Tuoro preparing the cream of international cuisine. A buffet dinner and drinks at Fenix, formerly Tiffin, spills over to the Eau Bar where unlimited beverages and canapes are served for Rs 7,500 per person.     Apart from a live band, the hotel has made arrangements for babysitting services and a playpen at its Udaipur and Jaipur suites. Frangipani and India Jones at its twin hotel, Trident, will keep busy serving dim sums, teppanyaki, festive desserts and the choicest spirits.     Further along the waterfront, spirits will also flow at the Intercontinental Marine Drive. The hotel is hosting an Austin Powers theme party at the Dome terrace bar, and a mix of a la carte as well as buffet menus at Kebab Corner and Koh, all priced between Rs 4,000-10,000 per person. Children are not allowed into the Koh.     Heading towards north Mumbai, the ITC Maratha near the international airport has devised an ‘Overnight Odyssey’in an executive club room with a bottle of wine, special massage and cocktails on December 31 and onward to brunch on January 1. The Rs 12,345 couple package includes dinner at either Dakshin or West View, followed by breakfast or brunch the day after.     At the Leela nearby, chef Surendra Mohan will attune his five-course menu to the accompaniment of ghazals at Jamavar while the in-house DJ will play beside the live cooking stations at Citrus where fresh trout, veal schnitzel and vindaloo will sizzle away. Leela’s Chinese and Italian restaurants become full to capacity on new year’s eve.     The stretch of beach along Juhu also hosts leisurely celebrations that last till the wee hours. The three restaurants and Enigma discotheque at Hotel J W Marriott are gearing up for ‘Sapphire 2012’with a live harp player, Italian specialties and unlimited alcohol for an average of Rs 4,000 per adult. Nearby Novotel in Juhu has put out VVIP tables offering butler service at Rs 10,000 per person at its ‘Zero Hour’ party, where the tab allows unlimited alcohol, starters and buffet. The spread poses a challenge to the new year resolution.
...as food inflation falls to near six-year low of 0.42% TIMES NEWS NETWORK New Delhi: Food inflation slowed to its slowest in nearly six years in mid-December as prices of vegetables, onion, potato and wheat fell due to improved supplies, raising prospects for easing of tight monetary policy.     Data released by the commerce and industry ministry on Thursday showed food inflation eased sharply to 0.42% in the week to December 17, lower than the previous week’s 1.81%. The December 17 reading was the slowest since April 2006. It stood at 15.48% in the same year-ago period.     Finance minister Pranab Mukherjee said the moderation in food inflation augured well for overall inflation.     “If this trend continues then you will have year-end inflation of around 6% ...But it cannot be lower than 6% because inflationary pressure was higher in weeks before,” Mukherjee told reporters.     Food inflation has been on a easing trend for the ninth consecutive weeks after hovering around double-digits for a considerable period. Overall inflation in November stood at 9.11%. The RBI has raised interest rates 13 times since March 2010 to tame inflation.     But experts say moderating inflation and concerns over slowing growth could prompt the Reserve Bank of India to ease its tight policy.     Thursday’s data showed vegetable prices fell an annual 36.02% in the week to December 17 while onion prices were down 59.04% year-on-year. Potato prices fell 33.76% and sustained their downward trend. Vegetable prices have been moderating after a sudden spurt in October. Wheat prices fell an annual 3.30% in the week to December 17.     The index for food articles group declined by 0.4% to 190.3 from 191.0 for the previous week due to lower prices of fruits and vegetables (4%), jowar (3%), tea and arhar (2% each) and ragi, urad and condiments and spices (1% each). But prices of sea fish (7%), chicken (2%) and moong, masur, maize, river fish bajra (1% each) moved up.     Experts attributed the fall to a good kharif harvest as well as a high base. “This is a base affect and the good kharif harvest has also contributed to moderation. We expect the prices to remain low for the next few weeks and this may help the RBI to go for rate cuts in the near future,” Crisil chief economist D K Joshi said.     But prices of milk, eggs, meat and fish remained robust due to sustained demand for these products. Increasing demand for protein-based items due to higher incomes have pushed up prices.
TERA KYA HOGA, KALIYA? 3 soothsayers with local following dip into the future

Food inflation turns -ve, RBI may cut rates TIMES NEWS NETWORK New Delhi: Food inflation turned negative for the first time in nearly six years in late December as prices of vegetables, potato, onion and some cereals fell sharply, prompting analysts to say the data provided headroom for the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) to cut interest rates and support growth.     Data released by the commerce and industry ministry on Thursday showed food inflation, as measured by the wholesale price index, fell by 3.36%—sharply lower than the previous week’s 0.42%. It stood at 20.84% in the same year-ago period.     Finance minister Pranab Mukherjee said there was substantial improvement in the food inflation situation. “Food inflation has turned negative for the first time in the recent memory,” he told reporters. Food inflation fell due to better supplies New Delhi: Plunging to negative figures for the first time in six years, Thursday’s data for food inflation showed vegetable prices fell by 50.22% yearon-year while potato prices declined an annual 34.01%. Onion prices which had shot up last year fell by 73.74% yearon-year. Wheat prices declined an annual 3.41%.     But price of pulses firmed up an annual 13.85% during the week under review.     C Rangarajan, chairman of the Prime Minister’s Economic Advisory Council, said he expects the overall inflation to ease below 7% by end-March. Policymakers have been wrong-footed several times in the past two years while predicting the inflation trend.     “We have to wait for December inflation figures to see if the non-food manufacturing numbers have also followed the same path. The December numbers will indicate when and how RBI will act,” he told reporters.     “The environment appears to be in favour of the Reserve Bank reversing its monetary policy stance,” he said.     Economists said the decline in food inflation was largely due to a statistical base effect but also showed that supplies had improved significantly.
Onion supplies to improve from today TIMES NEWS NETWORK Mumbai/Nashik: The supply of onions to retail markets will improve from Tuesday.     Following a meeting with agriculture minister Radhakrishna Vikhe-Patil on Monday, onion traders decided to withdraw their three-day boycott of auctions at the main markets.     With onion prices in wholesale markets falling by 30% in the last three weeks, there were protests demanding lifting or lowering of the minimum export price (MEP), which is $250 per tonne at present.     While citing the election code of conduct as the reason for not making any concrete promises, Vikhe-Patil assured the delegation of taking up the matter with the Centre. The state government has already asked the Centre to consider a stable policy on the export of agricultural produce.
Food inflation remains in negative zone New Delhi: A substantial fall in prices of vegetables, including that of potatoes and onions, led to food inflation slipping to minus 2.90% on December 31 — the second week in a row that it has remained in the negative zone.     A happy finance minister Pranab Mukherjee said, “Food inflation is still negative... There is a declining trend, headline inflation should be 6-7% by end March.” The data showing drop in prices of food articles of common man was released on Thursday, less than two weeks before the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) is set to review its monetary policy, amid expectations of a cut in interest rates.     Food inflation, measured by the wholesale price index (WPI), was over 19% in the corresponding week in the previous year.     It was minus 3.36% in the preceding week ended December 24,2011. AGENCIES
Inflation at 2-yr low of 7.47% TIMES NEWS NETWORK New Delhi: Inflation slowed to a two-year low in December on the back of a sharp decline in food inflation, providing enough headroom for the RBI to start easing tight monetary policy in the months ahead.     But economists said the RBI may start the process of cutting interest rates only after the Union Budget which is likely to be presented to Parliament in mid-March. Data released by the commerce and industry ministry on Monday showed the annual rate of inflation, as measured by the wholesale price index, stood at 7.47% in December compared to 9.11% in November and 9.45% during the corresponding month in the previous year. This was the lowest reading since December 2009 when it stood at 7.15%.     The moderation comes as a huge relief for policymakers who have been battling price pressures since 2010. ‘ undervalued 61%’     The rupee is the world’s most undervalued currency, trading at around 61% below its ‘actual’ price against the dollar, The Economist’s Big Mac Index, which measures the purchasing power of currencies using the cost of a McDonald’s burger, has found. P 19 Mfg items’ inflation a concern: FM Cut In CRR Cannot Be Ruled Out Amid Tight Liquidity Situation, Says Analyst New Delhi: Inflation, which eased to 7.47% in December, remained above 9% for a significant period, piling pressure on the government and upsetting household budgets.     Finance minister Pranab Mukherjee said he was confident that the easing trend would be sustained in the months ahead. He reiterated that the headline inflation should be between 6% and 7% by March-end. Mukherjee said the recent inflation and industrial output data indicated some improvement in the overall macro-economic situation and hinted at policy correctives to consolidate the trend.     But Mukherjee said the manufactured inflation and inflation in the power group of items continued to be a cause of concern. The index for the manufactured products group rose by 0.6% to 140.6 from 139.8 for the previous month.     Data showed the index for food articles group declined by 3.1% to 190.8 from 196.9 for the previous month due to lower prices of fruits and vegetables (13%), condiments and spices (6%), urad (5%), chicken (3%), tea (2%) and jowar, rice, arhar, ragi and barley (1% each). But prices of pork (8%), river fish (5%), maize (3%), bajra, egg, beef and buffalo meat, mutton and masur (2% each) and gram, coffee, wheat and milk (1% each) moved up.     Vegetable prices declined an annual 34.81% while onion prices dropped 60.45% yearon-year. Potato prices declined 35.45% year-on-year. Milk, eggs, meat and fish and pulses prices remained robust.     Economists said the RBI would prefer to wait and watch to see how the price situation unfolds in the weeks ahead and then take a call on cutting interest rates. “There was never a strong case for a rate cut at the upcoming January 24 policy review, in our view. We maintain our view that the RBI will likely cut rates after the federal budget (mid-March),” said Rajeev Malik, senior economist at CLSA in Singapore.     “However, a cut in the cash reserve ratio (CRR) should not be totally ruled out because of the need for a sustainable solution to address the excessively tight money market liquidity situation,” Malik said. The RBI will review the monetary policy on January 24.
Food inflation stays in negative zone Demand For Protein-Rich Food Soars, Production Low TIMES NEWS NETWORK New Delhi: Food inflation remained in negative zone for the third successive week on account of a sharp fall in prices of vegetables, including onions and potatoes, which had seen a surge in prices last winter and had upset household dietary habits.     With more than abundant supply, it’s a different story this year with food inflation estimated at 0.42% during the week-ended January 7, compared to over 16% a year ago. As a group, vegetables were 45.81% cheaper during the week. There is, however, little respite when it comes to protein-rich items with doubledigit inflation seen in case of fruits (10%), milk (11.5%) and eggs and meat (around 20%). In case of pulses too, inflation was estimated at over 14% during the weekended January 7.     With income level rising in recent years, the demand for protein-rich food products has soared, while production has not grown at the same pace. This is causing higher inflation in these segments, something that the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) and several economists have pointed to. Although food inflation has stayed negative, there are signs of acceleration. Economists expect it to be back in the 6-6.5% range by the end of March once the impact of base effect wears off.     “Available data regarding sowing trends for the rabi (winter) season indicates a shortfall in the area sown under pulses and oilseeds, which may result in a further increase in the price levels in the coming weeks,” Aditi Nayar, economist at ratings agency ICRA, said.     Apart from housewives, lowering of food inflation has provided tremendous comfort to policymakers, who have been under pressure due to inflation remaining above 9%. With food prices cooling down, overall inflation based on the wholesale price index too eased to 7.47% in December, a twoyear low. On Wednesday, the World Bank said that with crop production staying comfortable, inflationary pressures would wear off. But, RBI is expected to attach more importance to non-food segments — manufactured products and fuel and power — when it reviews the monetary policy next week. With industrial production too rebounding, chances are RBI will wait until March to start lowering policy rates.
Food inflation in negative zone for 4th straight week TIMES NEWS NETWORK New Delhi: Food inflation remained in the negative zone for the fourth consecutive week on the back of sharp slide in prices of vegetables, potato and onion but prices of egg, meat and fruits remained stubborn. Data released by the commerce and industry ministry on Friday showed food inflation in the week to January 14 stood at -1.03% compared to -0.42% in the previous. It stood at 17.14% in the corresponding year-ago period.     Food inflation has eased sharply in recent weeks due to improved supplies. The data showed vegetables prices declined an annual 47.06% in the week to January 14 while potato prices slipped an annual 22.46%. Onion prices, which had shot up sharply last year, were down an annual 79.10%.     But prices of some proteinbased items continued to remain robust. The data showed egg, meat and fish rose an annual 20.33% in the week to January 14. Milk prices also remained firm rising 12.25% year-on-year while fruits prices rose an annual 5.17%.     Policymakers say the sharp increase in demand for proteinbased items due to large disposable incomes have led to firm prices for these items. Experts say raising productivity and supplies is the only long term solution for stable prices.     Headline inflation has slowed to a 2-year low of 7.47% in December largely due to the impact of slowing food inflation but manufactured product inflation continues to be a concerns for policymakers. The government expects overall inflation to ease to between 6% and 7% by end March.     The government has decided to stop the weekly release of food inflation numbers. Experts say the weekly numbers are volatile which sometimes leads to panic reaction.     The index for food articles group rose by 0.3% to 191.4 from 190.9 for the previous week due to higher prices of bajra (4%), fish-marine and jowar (3% each), ragi and barley (2% each) and wheat, maize and milk (1% each).
EXCEPTION HERE
‘Potato king’ dumps 90k bagfuls, more to go in ’12 After two bumper potato crops, growers are forced to sell at a loss or chuck their produce. With another good crop on the way, the crisis is set to deepen Sidhartha | TNN Quadian Wali (Jalandhar): It’s a problem of plenty which has hit potato farmers across the country and even the biggest of them hasn’t been able to escape it. “I can perhaps recover only 50% of my investment. Bank loans are hitting the roof. How long can we live like this?” asks potato grower Jang Bahadur Singh Sangha.     The question about survival seems incongruous on Jang Bahadur’s lips. By no yardstick are the Sanghas small farmers. With 45,000-50,000 tonnes of potatoes harvested annually from the 5,000 acres leased near Jalandhar, they are probably the country’s largest growers of potatoes. Nearly 175 tractors till the Sanghas’ land.     There’s a workshop for the machines. The chain is complete with a lab where Cornell University-educated Jang Bahadur,the youngest Sangha,develops seeds and undertakes tissue culture. The produce is stored in his 11 cold storages. So, quite clearly these are no ordinary farmers. Yet, they’re in distress.     Not just them. Potato growers across states have been hit by a glut resulting from two bumper harvests. A third is on the way, which is likely to pile more pressure on the hapless farmers. From Gujarat to Punjab, from Farrukhabad to Singur, farmers are reeling under the pressure of bumper harvests. “The glut will continue in 2012 since the weather has been ideal for growing potatoes. It would have been even better had there not been so much rain,” says Jang Bahadur pointing to potatoes that are almost ready to harvest.     Like several other farmers, the Sanghas have dumped around 90,000 sacks of potatoes – some thrown away and the rest shipped to Assam and Karnataka for Rs 1-1.50 a kg. “If you include the cost of the jute bags, we virtually sold it for free. But we didn’t have a choice since you can’t see it rotting in front of you. In fact, things had become so bad that we requested the district administration for a designated place to dump our harvest,” says Jang Bahadur, nicknamed India’s potato king.     Government inflation data shows potato prices, at the all-India level, have fallen over 24% compared to last year.     Onions too have fared poorly with wholesale prices declining 79%. In Lasalgaon (Maharashtra), onions were selling for around Rs 3 a kg last month. This showed up in retail prices — in Delhi onions were selling for Rs 16 a kg compared to Rs 80 a year ago.     The sharp decline in potato prices was an election issue in Punjab. In UP, Rahul Gandhi used the glut in potatoes to argue for foreign direct investment in retail. Recently, the Congress general secretary told election gatherings across Farrukhabad and Kannauj that FDI would solve the puzzle of a kilogram of potato fetching Rs 2 or less for the farmer while a packet of potato chips costs Rs 10. “A packet of chips is made from just half a potato,” he had said.     Economists and government officials say there has been too much focus on increasing production and little has been done to boost processing and storage. A farm economist says, “You need the ability to process potatoes. May be powder it and add it to wheat. You need more cold storage facilities, otherwise farmers will be hit as much by a bumper crop as by drought.” One oft-suggested measure is to push for construction of more cold storages. Now, the government is lending a helping hand, offering subsidies. “So, we’ve built cold storages. But what will you do with your crop when it is not sold at the right price?” asks Jang Bahadur. PROBLEM OF PLENTY POTATO In mid-January, prices were 22.46% lower than a year ago Compared to March 2011, prices down 14.23% 12.41% dip in a week (Jan 7-14) ONION Onion prices have crashed over 79% in a year Fall of 14.23% since Mar In a week (Jan 7-14), prices dropped 12.41%
EXCEPTION HERE
International Menu @ The Society, The Ambassador Hotel, Churchgate Enjoy a truly interactive experience at The Society with a relaxed and perfect ambience to enjoy both lunch and dinner with your families and friends. The chef’s create and present every meal with their culinary skills. There’s an international menu with a vast selection from finger-licking ztarters to zoups, main course and desserts. Also included is live happening of Flambé and Fondues at your sight which will make your experience truly memorable. Where: The Society, The Ambassador Hotel, Veer Nariman Road, Churchgate Call: 022-2204 1131 New Chocolate Menu @ Croissants Outlets Don’t miss the new Chocolate Vienna Cake made of Chocolate Sponge filled with Honey layers and Chocolate Curls to surround, which makes for the perfect accompaniment to a hot cup of coffee. Try all this and more at your nearest Croissants Outlet, a new outlet has opened up in Thane. Where: Croissants Outlets in Mumbai Call: 022-2547 9000/ 2825 1919 Sunday Brunch @ Svenska, Andheri (W) Spend your Sunday afternoon with great food, unlimited bubbly and beverages and bazaar offering kitsch jewelry, lifestyle accessories, trendy clothing and other fun activities. There’s a choice of two lavish buffets spreads, with wide range of Mediterranean gourmet dishes at Miro, and multi-cuisine brunch at Mesa Bistro with Indian, Oriental and Continental delights and various mouth-watering desserts and beverages. Timings: Every Sunday between 12 pm to 4 pm Price: At an all inclusive price of only 800 (without drinks) and 1,000 (drinks included). Where: Svenska Design Hotel, Off Link Road, Andheri (W) Call: 022-4431 0000 Website: www.svenskahotels.com Awadhi Food Festival @ Its Mirchi, Ramee Guestline Hotel, Vile Parle (W) Here’s calling all you foodies to the world of Awadh Cuisine. You can be there to savour the flavours of Awadh at its best at Ramee Guestline Indian Restaurant Its Mirchi. Relish Nalli ki Nari, Awad ke Biryani, Tunde ke Kebab, Gosht ki Galouti, Murg Sia Mirchi, Firnee, Sewai ka Muzaffar and Zarda, just to name a few. Date: From March 2 to March 11 Where: Ramee Guestline Hotels, 462, AB Nair Road, Juhu, Vile Parle (W) Call: 022-6570 5555 Set Lunch Menu @ Vongwong, Nariman Point The special Set Menu Lunches at Vongwong have three different menus with both vegetarian and the non-vegetarian options for lunch from Mondays to Fridays. These delectable lunches are designed to offer a selection of new dishes as well as the popular ones while retaining that distinctive taste that sets Vongwong’s cuisine apart. Roast Chicken in Green Sauce, Zusi and the Wasabi Prawn Dumpling are some of the options at this meal. The three set lunches are the perfect option for a healthy and quick meal. Price: The Set Menu is for 750 per person for a minimum table of two, including VAT; Taxes extra. Where: Vongwong, 1st floor, Express Towers, Nariman Point Call: 022-2287 5633 /34 /35 Super Sunday Royal Buffet @ Goa Portuguesa/ Dakshin Culture Curry/ Diva Maharashtracha, Andheri (W) Experience a king-size Lunch Buffet every Sunday at Goa Portuguesa Kitchen and Bar, Andheri. Indulge in some veg, non-veg (excluding pork and beef) and seafood including Portuguese, Goan, Maharashtrian, South and North Indian cuisines. Serving eight types of starters, eight main courses, four varieties of salads and a dessert buffet and live counters. There’s live cooking and live music happening; and a lunch buffet from Monday to Saturday. Price: The Super Sunday Buffet is for 599/-* while the Daily Grand Lunch Buffet (Monday to Saturday) is for just 499/-**The rates are inclusive of taxes. There’s a one free lunch buffet on a group of ten and also a 15 per cent discount on the à la carte from Monday to Friday. Where: Goa Portuguesa Restobar, Lokhandwala Road, Near Versova Telephone Exchange/ RTO/ MHADA Signal, Andheri (W) Call: 022-2631 3222/ 777/ 91670 96460 Barbeque Festival @ The Regenza by Tunga, Vashi Come and enjoy delicious veg and nonvege varieties of Kebabs in this barbeque festival at Regenza By Tunga. Savour delicious items like Paneer Chutniwala, Chicken Makhmali Seekh, Pomfret Tikka, Skewered Mushrooms, etc. And the Holi fever is still on as there’s complimentary chocolates and gifts for children. Enjoy a live DJ with Holi music, colours and delicious food with your family this Holi. Where: The Regenza by Tunga, Plot No 37, Sector 30-A, Vashi, Navi Mumbai Call: 022-6680 1818/ 4102 1818 Email: info@tungahotels.com Power Buffet Spread, RainForest Restobar, Andheri (W) Relish regional delights of Paneer and Amritsari Masala to European delicacies of Spaghetti Bolognese and more. Enjoy mouth-watering Korean Hot Pot Soup, Murg Musallam, Tandoori Stuff Aloo, Veg Bruschetta and many more dishes at this multi-cuisine restaurant. Tel: 022-6517 6567 Seafood Menu, Aqua, Sun-NSand, Juhu Relish Prawn Nigri, Salmon Futo Maki, Californian Tuna Roll, Salmon Hushomaki, Prawn Hushomaki, Rawa Coated Surmai, Chutney Marinated Bombay Duck, Mandeli Koliwada Style among others. Tel: 022-6693 8888 Sushi Menu, Fenix, The Oberoi, Nariman Point The dishes include Itamae Maki, Shokunin Maki, Tanuki Salmon, Samurai Maki, Hamachi Karai, Ikura Hotate, The Grand Threesixty, The Crispy Spicy Maguro, Tuna, Spring Onions and Tempura Flakes; and the Cabrera Spiced, Prawn Tempura and more. Tel: 022-6632 6205 Holi Menu, Saptami, Hotel Holiday Inn, Andheri (E) The food includes Nalli Nihari, Murg Changezi, Paneer Tawa Tak-a-Tak, Hyderabadi Subz Korma, Dal Kabeela, Motia Pulao, desserts like Chum Chum, Rasmalai, Lauki ki Burfi, Puran Poli among others. Tel: 022-4085 1800 Unlimited Lunch Deal, Busaba, Colaba and Lower Parel Enjoy an unlimited lunch here with certain delicacies like Burmese Kaukswe, Steamed Fish with Lime Chili and Garlic, Black Bean Chicken, Tibetan Momos, Prawn Tempura and more. Tel: 022-2204 3769 (Colaba) and 022-6747 8971 (Lower Parel) New Menu, Aurus, Juhu There are many items on the menu that one can relish, including Argentinian Chimichurri, Soufflé Stuffed Mushrooms, Middle Eastern Style Vegetarian Appetisers, Lobster Seafood Pot Pie, Pasta and more. Tel: 022-6710 6666 New Menu, Elbo Room, Powai Enjoy items like Appetisers Chicken Wings Royal, Spicy Tamarind Prawns,Oriental Seafood Spring Rolls, Bruschetta Caprese, Crispy Baked Potatoes, Paneer Fingers among others. Tel: 022-2570 1800
TIMES FOOD GUIDE HOUSEFULL ...a one act play in NCPA Dramatis Personae Urvashi Thacker: This lively and affable character has not only mastered the art and science of Bonsai but also of cooking. She divides time between Jamnabhai Narsee School (which her family owns) and conducting national and international workshops on Bonsai, and now her book on the subject is set to break all records. Sameena Khan: The vision in white has not only designed the striking red necklace she is wearing but also heads husband Azeem’s accessory line. Hailing from a royal Nawabi family, Sameena epitomises refined taste in food too. She’s been friends with Urvashi for over two decades (when she bought her first bonsai from her). Azeem Khan: Third generation of maestros of fashion and embroidery, this dapper designer is a foodie extraordinaire. The couple’s work continues to dazzle Mumbai, Europe, Singapore and Dubai. Rus... the narrator: …a shadowy figure seen lurking around, eating, talking, taking notes and photographing. Sometimes all four at the same time. Farokh Khambatta: The brilliant owner-chef (of Joss and Amadeus fame) stays backstage but continues to feed the cast with comfort food. SCENE ONE The Setting: The twomonth-old Café at NCPA, Nariman Point, is lush green with trees and plants. Serene ambiance below the skies. Umbrellas, open kitchen too. It’s packed. On two nights Rus, the narrator is seen eating dinner (with hotshot London lawyer Sunil Sheth) under the stars. Chorus: It’s the tandoori kebabs that come out tops, be it the melt in the mouth Kakori, the robustly spiced Pahadi Chicken or the well made Fish Tikka. Sadly the special menu of Parsi fare (dhansak, chicken salli) is not as good and the dimsum have thick skins. The bockwurst sausage dog with onion relish delights. As do the desserts. SCENE TWO Setting: Café At NCPA. It’s a cool, sunny afternoon. Sparkling women like Esther Daswani and Jamini Alhuwalia are seen eating here. It’s housefull. Urvashi Thacker: I love sitting amidst so many plants, if only they would improve the landscaping. Waiters bustle with sandwiches, burgers, dimsum, kababs, smoothies. Sameena and Azeem Khan: It’s this glorious baked Brie topped with nuts that is working the magic for us. Chorus: The silken smooth and flavoursome coconutty curry of the Khowsuey served with all the crunch of the trimmings is the star of the show. The Parsi fare continues to disappoint but the sandwiches and the mini meals are generously large and flavoursome (sesame crusted fish and jacket potatoes recommended). As also the Chocolate mudpie and Philadelphia cheesecake. Plenty for veggies. Finale: Brilliant location, rare to find alfresco café in Mumbai. Open through the day. No alcohol. Valet parking. Don’t go looking for gourmet fare, it’s comfort food at even more comforting prices (Rs 500 per head). Is it any wonder that it’s housefull?     Exit. Encore. CAFE AT NCPA Near Amadeus, Nariman Point. PH: 2282 1212 Open 12 pm to 11 pm; FOOD 3.5 SERVICE 3.5 DÉCOR 4
Seafood Brunch, Ankur, Fort Enjoy Sannae with Yeti Gassi (a Southern Kanada specialty of Prawns cooked in Coconut based curry, served with fluffy Rice Cakes or Steamed Rice), Jhingha Koliwada, Raavas Kalimari, Murg Angari, Gosht Lara, Kori Roti, Tawa Mutton, Jashta Kebab, Massa Ajadina with Neer Tella and more. Tel: 022-2265 4194/ 2263 0393 New Menu, The Irish House, Lower Parel On St Patrick’s Day, relish on some choicest Irish delicacies like Armagh Mushroom Bites (Mushrooms in a Creamy Sauce topped with Chives), Belfast Barbeque Wings (Meaty Chicken wings that have been smoked all night in our Beer BBQ Glaze, served with Irish Potato Fries. Option of Hot Sauce) and much more. Tel: 022-43471 111
Plea to Centre on onions T he state has asked the Centre to remove the minimum export price on onions, CM Prithviraj Chavan said in the state assembly on Tuesday. Onion farmers have been demanding this in recent days. TNN
Your favourite restaurant’s favourite man Some of urban India’s most-visited restaurants wouldn’t be the same without the men they depend on to supply make-or-break ingredients. Ismat Tahseen tells the story of an 11 pm emergency call for a fresh batch of prawns Stone Water Grill’s Mushroom-crusted rawas relies on Sanjay Taru’s fresh catch     SANJAY TARU’S voice is laced with apology when he says, “I can’t help it. I have fish on my mind all the time.” The 33-year-old Pune resident supplies close to 100 kilos of seafood to some of the city’s best known restaurants, including Riverview and the Turf Club. He starts his day at dawn, spending most of it at his Dhole Patil Road supply centre, identifying if the fish is fresh with a quick glance. “I send 10 kilos of crab and prawn, and another 12 kilos of basa every day to Stone Water Grill. But, I need to be ready for emergencies. A last-minute call could mean I have to cough up 15 kilos of prawn, just like that.”     It is this that makes Taru’s job far from boring, and was one of the reasons the graduate in Computer Sciences was able to come to terms with a switch in career if the family business was to continue.     “I’m their only son. Dad was doing so much; I had to pitch in. Besides, I am able to use my tech knowledge to enhance my business,” says Taru.     It’s not an easy business to run, with a low profit margin and fierce competition playing spoil sport. “Fish breeding seasons throw up complications in the supply chain. That’s when we have to procure the catch from other states. Nature can throw up quite a challenge!” he says. Taru’s tip: To keep lobsters and crabs fresh, boil them before you preserve them in a deep freezer. This way, they can stay fresh for a week. DELHI Baci’s Felix Salad is no good without the rocket lettuce from Pankaj Kumar Singh’s Okhla farm     THE answer to the way India is changing how it eats lies at a 12-acre farm in Okhla on the outskirts of New Delhi. “Look around,” he says, pointing to beds of rocket lettuce. “Ten years ago, there was no demand for a single English vegetable. Today, I sell up to 500 kilos of broccoli a day,” says Pankaj Kumar Singh.     Twenty-two years of experience in the business makes Singh’s opinion on the Indian palate, a valid one. He was the first, he says, to grow yellow bell peppers in the neighbourhood, and brought the seedless variety of Holland’s cucumber to Delhi, relying on little else but instinct.     Singh’s farm houses a variety of lettuce, including butter, Romaine, red tip, radicchio and endive. They sit side-by-side with bunching onions that the organic farmer says do well in sandwich fillings, and salads. And it’s the location of this greenpad that Singh says is his USP. “Chefs can get the same varieties at an exotic veggie store but the rustic, farm fresh flavours? No.”     Work is butter smooth, the gentleman admits, until he gets a “heart attack”. “Once, we harvested 100 kilos of rocket lettuce. But the client wanted 200 in a rush. So, I had to find a way of sourcing the rest from the market. We can’t disappoint our clients.”     Andrea Aftab Pauro, proprietor of Baci restaurant in Delhi, says Singh shares half the credit for the popularity of their Felix salad. “I’m choosy about what goes into it. The leaves can’t be wilted or too young. Singh sends us the perfect bunch,” says Pauro.     ismat.tahseen@timesgroup.com Singh’s tip: Don’t soak rocket leaves in water for long. They will lose water-soluble vitamin C and folate. MUMBAI Indigo Deli’s Lobster ravioli is no good without Hemant Chhabra’s orange basil     EXECUTIVE chef with Mumbai restaurant Indigo Deli, Jaydeep Mukherjee can do without his paring knife, at a pinch. But he refuses to work without sprigs of orange basil that he blends in a sauce drizzled over his Lobster ravioli. The lemonflavoured basil is equally important to the creation of the eatery’s signature Steamed rawas. Rather than belong to flamboyant recipe books, these flavour secrets stem from Hideout, a farm that stands at Vikramgarh, 100 km from Mumbai.     Twenty-three years ago, Hemant Chhabra invested his savings in this nine-and-a-half acre farm together with wife Sangeeta. They offered tired urban Indians a rural break — baking bricks, weaving bamboo baskets and picking vegetables for their meals.     Now, Hideout also caters to restaurants like Indigo. “Everyone thought it was a huge gamble, but it has been great,” says the organic entrepreneur who grows 23 varieties of bananas, including the South Indian Neendrapalam, Rastali, Rasali and other types from Goa, Karnataka and Kanyakumari. There are also love apples, French tomatoes, and herbs, including six varieties of the basil — Italian, fine, Thai, violet, lemon, and Mammoth. “Thai basil emits a very faint aroma, while Italian basil is potent; just crush a leaf gently, and you’ll see,” he says.     Chhabra’s pineapples are a hit too, including the Q2 variety that weighs six kilos. He followes Japanese farmer Masanobu Fukuoka’s philosophy of ‘do-nothing farming’ (do away with the need for soil cultivation, ploughing, chemical fertilisers, pesticides, weeding, pruning, machinery or compost and still manage to produce yields equivalent to that borne by chemical agriculture).     But it hasn’t been easy. Ten years ago, Chhabra would hitch a ride on a state bus, carting 40 kilos of Italian lemons to take to Mumbai. Priced at 2 a piece, they were exorbitant for bazaar-goers. A chance meeting at a yoga class with Malini Akerkar, co-owner of Indigo, led to a deal. “I’m happy the produce has found respect,” he smiles. The occasional times he has dropped by at the restaurant for a meal, he says, it has taken him no more than a second to tell if the lemon zing rushing over his palate is courtesy Hideout. Chhabra’s tip: Basil leaves turn black quickly; they should be chopped just before serving. Basil leaves and cashew bits blended with olive oil and a squeeze of lemon make a refreshing summer salad dressing.
TIMES FOOD GUIDE Rashmi Uday Singh A FEW OF MY FAVOURITE THINGS     It requires a certain nerve, a certain degree of self-assured confidence to do this. I refer to the serving of cheese fondue with chopped green chillies and onions in this brand new Kemps Corner restaurant. My well-known theatre star guests have not only travelled the world but also performed on many an international stage and they enjoy this fondue. Hugely gifted, actor, dancer and singer Delna Mody has studied all three arts in America, has her own theatre company and is all set to wow Mumbai as Maria in The Sound of Music. Having the distinction of being the only Indian actor in musical theatre in the UK, Dalip Tahil has also dazzled in Andrew Lloyd Webber’s shows. And once again he is all set to act opposite Maria as Captain Von Trapp. Orchestrating this multi-layered production is multi-talented Raell Padamsee and the fact that she has a NGO’s kids starcast too has my heart tripping the light fantastic. Daughter of the legendary Pearl Padamsee (under whom Dalip trained when he was 14 years old) Raell sure knows how to combine art with science and organizing with creativity. Spending a relaxed afternoon in a cheerful restaurant with my three lively and lovely guests is certainly one of my favourite things. 36 OAK & BARLEY I ate three times at this curiously named restaurant (with it’s menu of pizza, sandwiches, Asian, Chinese and more). The first two meals were average and marked by tepid flavours and undercooked fare but the third time round (now) the food had decidedly improved. Could it be because the young, driven chef Nachiket Shetye was present (and earlier he hadn’t been so)? Or was it because the kitchen is getting surer in it’s touch. For instance, the cubes of basa were silken and delicate with lemon butter, plump dimsum came bathed in flavoursome broth. With the ciabatta we mopped dry the shrimp and calamari Ajillo. In an earlier meal, the pizzas had been unexceptional, ditto for the veg Thai curry. The vegetarian “Toasty with the mosty” was dry and unexceptional and the chicken and mushroom fricassee oversalted.     The red walls, the industrial look, the slick wooden and brass flooring and most of all the stylish black jaguar leaping from the ceiling, caught our attention. Also the fact that along with the gourmet dishes were the comforting sandwiches (ham and cheese and one with Rajma too) and even the old fashioned custard and jelly dessert (except that there was a soapy undertone to it). But the rest of the desserts made up for it. The light and wobbly vanilla and berry panna cotta to the almond and chocolate pie, the densely sweet chocolate cake and the warm shot of chocolate have us singing with joy.     This new, happy space (well-stocked bar, with a smoking alley et al) is open through the day and has a mix of comfort food with the fancy stuff at moderate prices (Rs 1,500 meal for two) plenty for veggies too. If only it keeps up its consistency in its quality of food. YOU ARE INVITED Mooh meetha karo. Life just got sweeter. Your very own Times Food Guide 2012 has been on Crosswords’ bestseller list for the past two months. Taste the city’s finest brownies (for free) and meet the brownie makers too… get a taste of The Times Food Guide 2012 as Crossword celebrates it’s continued Bestseller status. Block the date in your calendar. Friday, 6th April, 6.30 to 8.30pm. At Crossword, Kemps Corner. Its our sweet date. See you there. 36 OAK & BARLEY 76 Nidhi, August Kranti Marg, Near Gowalia Tank, Kemps Corner Phone: 23811010 Open daily noon to midnight Alcohol served All major cards Meal for two: Rs 1,500 FOOD 3.5 SERVICE 3.5 DÉCOR 3.5
EXCEPTION HERE
EXCEPTION HERE
After Pawar, CM slams Centre’s export policy Sandeep Ashar TNN Mumbai: Days after union agriculture minister and NCP supremo Sharad Pawar wrote to prime minister Manmohan Singh questioning the Centre’s policy on exports, chief minister Prithviraj Chavan also voiced his concern over the policy on Thursday.     Chavan said that “quantitative restrictions on exports” impacted prices of farm produce and did not work in farmers’ interest. Hinting that he first expressed his reservations long before Pawar’s letter to the PM, Chavan said that he had openly raised concerns over these restrictions during a meeting of the National Development Council, which took place in October last year.     Chavan further said that he had also made his stand on the issue known to the union government, whenever the Centre imposed bans on exports of cotton, onion and other produce.     The CM’s stand comes a day after the NCP announced its plans to demonstrate against price rise and export policies among other things on May 16. Chavan declined to comment on NCP’s decision to protest.
PLANTING PROFITS Tractor cos pin growth hopes on normal rains Nandini Sen Gupta TNN Chennai: The met department’s forecast of a good monsoon is good news for the tractor industry that is battling a demand slowdown since last year. However,tractor companies say the rain gods may not deliver the sector that is facing multiple problems, including rising input costs, low floor prices, over production, higher labour cost and inflation.     Says Pawan Goenka, president (auto & tractor division), Mahindra & Mahindra: “Right now, the tractor industry is going through a bit of a slowdown and a good monsoon should help improve sentiments.”     The problem is the reasons that led to the dampening of demand are still active. “Demand has been going down because the farmer has less disposable income in his hands,” says Goenka. That’s because of rising input costs, low floor prices, over production of potato and onion crops and, of course, hike in labour costs due to schemes like MGNREGS. “Labour costs have gone up three-four times compared to what it was a few years ago, and that pinches,” says Goenka.     Industry analysts say what has also impacted demand is the rise in tractor prices by around 5-7% thanks to an increase in input costs and an excise hike in the last Budget. Says S Sridhar, CEO, Escorts Agri Machinery: “Overall demand depends on some tangible and intangible factors. The tangible include crop production, prices and surplus while the intangible is the quality of rain, spread and timing.”     Last year, he says, the southern and western states suffered much more because of the rain spread. And ironically, a low inflation rate also had an impact. “Inflation came down from November to January and that meant less money in the hands of farmers,” says Sridhar.     Sonalika group chairman L D Mittal, however, says that the tractor business will pick up speed now that the state elections are over.
AI strike costs veg exporters 44L a day Vashi APMC Traders Forced To Sell Goods Locally At Loss Vijay Singh | TNN     Small and medium scale vegetable and fruit exporters at the APMC market in Vashi are suffering losses of Rs 44 lakh a day because of the Air India pilots’ strike. On Monday afternoon, empty boxes of export-quality vegetables and fruits were piled up as trash at the market, their contents having been released locally at about half their price.     “The boxes were returned from the air cargo terminal in Mumbai. The bookings were on AI flights, which were cancelled. We are selling the stock at a great loss in local markets now. The boxes have become trash,” said exporter Bhima S Hanje of Deepali Enterprises.     He said the APMC market has 25 small and medium scale vegetable and fruit exporters, most of whom are suffering daily losses of Rs 1.5-2 lakh each. Their wares primarily go to Gulf countries like the UAE, Saudi Arabia and Bahrain, and the UK.     Each box typically holds 4 kg of vegetables like ladies’ fingers, bitter gourd, green chillies and onions, and fruits like mangoes, apples and grapes. Being highly perishable goods, these are being sold locally now. Hanje said an export box of ladies’ fingers sells for Rs 350-400 per 4 kg in London, but exporters were being forced to sell them for Rs 170-220 per 4 kg in Mumbai because of the pilots’ stir.     “The strike is bleeding us daily. Our customers abroad are frantically calling us to know when the cargo will reach them. We have no answer to that as the strike continues,” said an exporter.     But why cannot the boxes be transported through other airlines? “With AI, we have a fixed system wherein we can export two tons of goods or a little above this figure. But in other airlines, like Jet Airways, we are only allowed 500 kg per flight, which is not beneficial to us,” he said.     The exporters hope for the civil aviation ministry to step in to end the strike, Hanje said. “Otherwise, our losses will mount.”
Food prices double in UPA’s term Sidhartha TNN New Delhi: If inflation has broken the back of the aam aadmi, the biggest contributor to the pain in the UPA’s term is food prices.     Government data on wholesale price index (WPI) shows that there has been a 63% increase in the price of all commodities between April 2004, a month before UPA took charge, and April 2012, the latest period for which data is available. But when it comes to food products, the index has more than doubled from 98 to 206.4. So, you are now spending at least twice the amount you spent in April 2004 just to meet your basic consumption needs.     Of the 60-odd items analyzed by TOI and Crisil, there is just one case — ginger — where the price has decreased, going by the index. In all other cases, there has been an increase. Within these commodities, there are only eight products — guava, coconut, garlic, papaya, onions, turmeric, tea and chicken — where the rise in prices is less than 63%.     The spurt in food prices is mainly due to demand outstripping supply as productivity has remained stagnant for most of the commodities.     For households, especially the poor, food inflation can have the most damaging impact, given that a bulk of spending in the lower income strata is on this segment. While the poor can draw some comfort from the fact that cereal prices are not among the commodities which have seen the maximum jump, the overall increase is still over 90% with wheat and rice, on an average, seeing over 80% increase.     While protein-rich items such as milk, egg, meat and fish have seen prices more than double, it is vegetables that have caused the maximum dent to the housewife’s monthly budget with a 171% jump. So, if you spent Rs 3,000 a month on vegetables seven years ago, you would now be spending over Rs 5,000. Given that cabbage now costs sixand-a-half times more than April 2004, you can draw comfort from the fact that during this period, potato and brinjal prices have gone up by 111% and 140%. Bhindi now costs four-and-a-half times more.
Wholesalers rankled by steps to limit monopoly Bella Jaisinghani TNN Mumbai: Milk adulterated with detergent and urea, vegetables whose cost increases four or five times during the journey from farm to dinner table, and foodgrains that in a year of record harvest remain a matter of concern for middle class Mumbaikars. The common thread that runs through such unfair practices, many say, is the monopoly of the middleman.     Since food inflation assumed sky-high proportions in 2008, a simmering anger has become manifest against wholesalers who reportedly hog the lion’s share of profit to the detriment of growers and end consumers. Over the past few days, some official measures have emerged to tackle this menace.     On May 1, the Maharashtra government loosened the vice-like grip of Agriculture Produce Market Committee (APMC) that is accused of exploiting both the farmer and the consumer by buying cheap and selling at inflated rates. Farmers can directly sell 30 types of fruits and vegetables to consumers.     The move has caused alarm within the ranks of middlemen. APMC director Ashok Walunj said, “Do farmers have the wherewithal to hire trucks, park them in crowded places and unload them? Who will fix the price of the produce? We wholesalers have a system in place to manage the logistics.”     Walunj claimed that the APMC charges a commission of 80 paise on 100 kg of produce so eliminating this small sum from the transaction will not contain inflation. He said, “In any case, look at how affluence levels have risen. Would the previous generation have dreamt of salaries to the tune of Rs 50,000? Traders charge a premium only in posh, high-class areas. Dharavi still gets things cheap.”     The Central Railway already transports onions, oranges, raw plantain and grapes in significant quantities. “Now the idea of running special trains carrying vegetables from Nashik to Mumbai is on the drawing board,” said chief PRO V A Malegaonkar. “It could be a while before it is implemented, though.”     On Sunday, dairy farmers launched a nationwide agitation to protest against “unfair trade practices” by branded dairies. “Popular brands source milk from cattleshed owners at Rs 18 per litre and sell it for Rs 30-32 although the additional cost of packaging and transportation comes to not more than Rs 3-4 per litre,” said Mohan Singh Ahluwalia of the Gwala Gaddi Samiti spearheading the campaign.
EXCEPTION HERE
A treat for foodies Head to Cafe Mangii for an Express Lunch     Cafe Mangii serves an epicurean delight to food-lovers in Mumbai, with its exclusive Express Lunch menu. Perfectly designed to offer a blend of the best Italian cuisine of superlative quality at affordable rates served with elegant presentation and efficient service, the special menu is sure to please food connoisseurs. Step into a Café Mangii outlet to indulge in a scrumptious three course meal consisting of a soup or salad followed by the main course offering delicious personal pizza or pasta (vegetarian and non-vegetarian inclusive). To adorn the delicacies, they offer a mouth-watering dessert of the day or coffee that will satiate your appetising lunching experience.     For the vegetarians, the menu displays exotic delights like Spaghetti Aglio Olio Pepperercino with assorted vegetables, Penne Romana (white wine porcini cream sauce with wild mushrooms), Fusilli (cherry tomato and cheese sauce with coloured peppers, broccoli and mushrooms), and Rigatoni Alpesto (homemade pesto, sun dried tomatoes and olives). Non-vegetarians get to choose from Margherita (sizzling mozzarella and fresh basil), Vegetable (coloured peppers, zucchini, onion, sundried tomato and mushroom), Capricciosa (pesto base, bell peppers, sun dried tomatoes and jalapeno), Cajun Chicken with glazed onion, mushrooms and sun dried tomato, Barbeque Chicken with roasted bell peppers and jalapenos, Regina ham, fresh mushrooms, artichokes and ruco. Details: The lunch is priced at Rs 499 for a veg meal and Rs 599 for non-veg meal on weekdays. The three course Express Lunch is priced at Rs 499* for veg and Rs 599* for non-veg. Cafe Mangii addresses: Junction of Khar Pali and 14th Road, Off Linking Road, Inside Nike Showroom Lane, Khar (W). Call: +91-22-2649 8000/100/200. No. 3, Transocean House, Lake Boulevard Road, Hiranandani Business Park, Powai. Call: +91-22-2570 5136/ 37/38/ 39.     Premises No. 28, Aram Nagar 1, Versova, Andheri (W). Call: +91-22-2631 6100/ 101/ 102.
Restaurant Review JUMJOJI Parsi I’m rejoicing. At last, our city has its very own quintessential Parsi restaurant, and one with a sense of humour too. While the Parsi Ideal Corner (Fort) Britannia (Ballard estate) are open only for lunch, Jimmy Boy (Horniman Circle) disappoints and Paradise (Colaba) serves great dhansak, this newest Parsi ‘dikra’ is handsome, a product of passion and has been born very close to the Lilavati Hospital. DÉCOR Read and chuckle. The writing is on the walls and the outside and even in the loo. Witty one liners, dedications to wellknown, brilliant Parsis (and there are many). A small handsome, midnight blue and white room is detailed with black and white photographs, traditional votive candles, pencil drawings of their winged symbol, the Faravahar… small, comfy and elegant. FOOD The lustily-spiced, sweet and tangy mutton salliboti with jardaloo is not just my favourite,but also that of my favourite Parsi actor Boman Irani. Steamed to perfection in a banana leaf, the Patranimachi is an expert balance of sweet, sour, sharp and soft notes. Even the tender chicken seekh kebabs have the perfect kiss of mint. Ask for the Parsi mutton kheema and velvety coconut-ty chicken curry rice.     However, the dhansak, which is spicy and rich with the robust flavour of the succulent mutton on one day, turns lacklustre the next day. Ladle it onto the flavoursome brown rice, pile on with the onion kachumber and squeeze nimbu. Plus points for the Dukes raspberry soda andlagan nu achar served here. SERVICE Faultless and friendly on one day and slow and confused on another. MINUS POINTS Except for the Paneer Akuri, vegetarian dishes don’t match up to their non-vegetarian counterparts. Overcooked mutton kebab, mushy with masala mutton pulao and oversweet lagan nu custard and chocolate crunch disappoint. No saasnimacchi and kid gosht on the menu. All dishes have generous helpings and moderate prices except for the patranimachi (a small piece for Rs 450). And the dhansakh is magnificent on one day and just average on the next. Only wine served here. MY POINT From “cool and fabulous” to “overpriced and lacklustre” were some of the mixed reactions to this new arrival. However, after eating here twice I’d like to point out that this labour of love and passion has just enough sophistication and upscale trappings to make it a fun night out, not just a grubby refuelling station. There’s valet parking too. Authentic flavours mark its dishes, some sublime and some patchy (and a few expensive). The tagline says “Stocks available till Parsis last”. May their tribe increase. We welcome our ‘dikra’ with joy. FOODLINE I’m delighted and overwhelmed. Thanks for your twitter, fb and email response to my query about your favourite small eating joints. Space constrains me from printing all the fabulous details. Looking forward to eatingabout with you at your favourite cheap and cheerful eateries. Mail (rashmiudaysingh2012@gmail.com, fb, twitter) or sms(7738022873 ) to be listed here. Watch this space every Friday.     Parag Chapekar: Cafe Excelsior (near VT) mutton cutlet gravy, bread pudding; Grant House (near Haj House) for surmai chutney fry, samudripulao; Cafe Fountain Plaza (DN Road) for chicken masala roast; Belgaum Ghee Depot (Nana Chowk) chicken and mutton cutlets, dal poli.     Sunyan Shahani: Culinary Muse Fresh Catch (Mahim) for Prawn Rechado, Calamari chilli fry; Prakash (Dadar) for Sabudana Vade, Kotambhir Vadi); Sernya (Andheri) thukpa, chicken momos     Jarna Gandhi: Hotel Deluxe (Fort) pitha street for fabulous home style Malayalee food); Khaane Khaas (Bandra) fish tikkas; New Martins (Colaba) for beef curry     Priyanka Shetty: Crystal (Chowpatty) for homestyle veg; New Martins (Colaba) for chicken vindaloo and prawn pulao     Manjula C: Mani’s (Matunga) authentic Tamilian; Aswad, (Dadar) for Maharashtrian food; Yazdani Bakery (Fort) Bun maska and chai, warm apple pie     Rohan Solankar: MalvanKatta (Near Sena Bhavan, Dadar)     Bijou Fernendez: Ainsley’s Bistro (Pali Market road) meat dishes; Sneha (Mahim causeway) fish fry to appams, Kerala beef-fry; Madina, Paramount, Shahnaz (all in Mahim) Shaaq T, Shakti Salgaokar: Chaitananya for fish; Rajus Malwani corner for wade mutton (both at Shivaji Park) Varun Bubber: Kalaghoda Cafe ShabbirShehaby: Ruby Tuesday for Mexican cuisine Poonam Joshi: Goa Bhavan (Juhu) KrytieSaxena: Sneak for Kerala parathas, sukha chicken (near Sitladevi Temple) Nishat Gandhi: Jai Hind (Bandra); Wok Hei (Lower Parel)’ Harish Lunch Home (Ballard Estate) TIMES FOOD GUIDE Jumjoji Ankleshwar Building, ONGC Colony, Bandra Reclamation, Bandra West, 400058 Telephone: +91 22 2651 6156 Wine Only. credit cards accepted Timings: 12.00pm-03.00pm, 07.00pm-11.30pm Meal for two 1200
Restaurant Review     I can’t stop smiling. Your fabulous and continuous emails, calls, tweets not only make me overjoyed but also connect me to an ever-enlarging foodie network, and make my work meaningful. To you, I owe many an off-the-eaten-track discovery. I follow your leads and tips with seriousness, and today I follow them to Alibag and Nasik. To two eateries, both serving authentic local fare made by women from the region. Local food is my passion and this KOKUM AND SPICE Malwan, Goa, Mangalore and Kerala place serves up local recipes, made with local ingredients, starting with the crazily-addictive nachni papad and fanas papad. Let me make it clear upfront that I’m not recommending a special weekday trip to Alibag’s superb coastal cuisine restaurant. Reason? It’s open only for dinner, except for Saturday and Sunday when it’s also open for lunch. So should you happen to be in Alibag, then make a beeline for this eatery, which serves up dishes from Malwan, Goa, Mangalore and Kerala.     The over fried batter of the bombil bhaji disappoints but then the rich with coconut Tisri sukhe,my favourite, is a delight. Robustly spiced mutton sukhe and valachi bhirde, flavoursome and authentic Goan prawn curry make for a satisfying meal.     The Kerala ishtew, however, is lacklustre. Ditto for the accompanying appam. The local Alibag chicken dish is simply made with jeera and black pepper. Chicken jeera miri delights with its homestyle flavours. Bharla bangra in green masala, crabs, thalipeeth and kothimbir wadi are served here too. Avoid the oversweet amrakhand and opt for the delicious Malwanukadichemodak recipe to end the meal.     All this in the comfy, air-conditioned restaurant of the Radisson Blu Resort & Spa Alibaugh, with its suffused red lighting and many a diyas. Here, chef Sudhir Jadhav helms the kitchen where locals Samira Thakur and Mangal Patilnot only hand-pound masalas but cook authentic recipes too. And the difference is evident. In this holy city and wine capital (Nasik), this recently renovated twinlevelled comfy, contemporary restau-PANCHRATNA North West Frontier, Maharashtrian rant showcases once again the brilliance of women cooks. The local, Bharati Nagre, brings to the stoves generations old authentic recipes and skills. I dine here with the ever-helpful Nina and PK Vasa and sure enough the local Nasik specialty mutton chakalarassa thrills with its robust hand-pounded roasted masalas. As do the tasty chicken dishes of Kombdichesuke and kombdi cha rassa. We mop it all up with the delightful millet bhakri. Wellmade gramflour pithla and coconutinfused bharliwangi delight us. Thankfully, Ahmer Siddiqui, the GM of the hotel, has scrapped the Chinese menu, and introduced North West Frontier fare (superb, melt-in-themouth galoti kebab) too. Some of the kebabs in the platter were overdone and the puranpoli is too doughy. Chef Nitish Phadnis’ unique dish of haramoong palak delights. Ask for the ‘Wine Flite’ where for the price of one you can sample three wines of Nasik. Cheers! FOODLINE Stars of this week? @rushinaMG, @TheBigbhookad @jarnagandhi for helping me reach out to more tweeple. Once again with gratitude. Thanks for your Twitter FB and e-mail feedback on eateries, caterers, dessert makers and more. Space constrains me from printing all the fabulous details. Mail at (rashmiudaysingh2012@gmail.com, FB, Twitter @rashmiudaysingh) or sms (7738022873) to be listed here. READERS RECOMMEND     Cupcakes with smurfs, cars, powerpuff girls, owls and cats. You can get them with colourful glace icing and a smattering of skittles, mini marshmallows, sour punk, gummybears and more. Contact Pallavi Sheth. Ph: 98201 20098.     Gul Advani, Kalpana Swaly, Meenal Rajkotia and Kanchan Samtani recommend Rainbow Arts for sugarcrafted cakes and chocolates crafting courses and bakes at Andheri. Ph: 99309 00837, 2632 3223     Narendra Kamat recommends Tambe Arogya Bhavan, N C Kelkar Rd Dadar (W). It serves excellent zunkabhakri, khichdi, kothambirwadi, piyush. Lucky Restaurant, Bandra serves excellent mutton matka, chicken shahiwala, biryani and phirni. @Beli Eats recommends Betkipaturiat Calcutta Club, Oshiwara, thalipeeth at Asvaad, halwa/ bombil fry at Highway Gomantak, saliboti at Jimmy Boy and thukpa at Sernya. Call A Pasteleria for bakes cakes, cupcakes, brownies, breads, cookies, cereal bars, desserts and snacks. For orders call Anisha 98209 49975. @Creative3_mind recommends Sagar Lunch Home, Borivali. @Kakshadesaii recommends the roadside Parathawala near Milap Theatre, Thane for excellent variety of parathas.     Yogesh Keshalkar recommends Paramount, Mahim, for chicken tandoori, butter chicken and chicken Afghani; Madina, Mahim for beef fry and kerala paratha; Raju Corner, Shivaji Park for prawn masala; Kyani Bakery, Metro Cinema for egg and cheese bhurjee, kheema puffs; Bade Miya, Colaba for bheja roll.     Singh’s Adyar undertakes veg chicken and mutton dum bir yani ( 750, 950 and 1150, served with onion raita and bagarey baigan) Ph: 72008 27478.     Classes for hand-moulded dry fruit sweets, Bengali sweets, sizzlers, vegetable and fruit carving, chocolate bouquets, bread making, chocolate making and more. For details contact Mini Arts, Meena Savla. Ph: 2646 0936     Contact Nargish Lala for delicious pickles, prawn, dried Bombay duck, brinjal, gajar mewa and tomato chutney. She also takes orders forbadampak, pork vindaloo and sorpotel. Ph: 98190 02500     @surabhhilicious recommends California Kitchen Pizza for great soup, pasta and pizza options in both veg and non-veg .     @Dumbbellman recommends the perfect spicy-grilled Calamari, flavourful lobster at The Table. QUERIES ANSWERED Margaret, you were looking for Mrs Goriawalla’s number,. Here it is: 2387 1434, 2387 4467. QUERIES Om Tejwani is looking for the number of Su’s Kitchen.
RESTAURANT WATCH Rolls that Rock @ Hanglas Outlets What: Hangla’s with outlets at Lokhandwala, Bandra, Powai, Goregaon, Malad, brings to Mumbai the authentic street side flavour of Kolkata. Features: Influenced by the Mughals, the Brits and even the French for a bit, the street food in Kolkata is unlike any other in the world. This is a no-frills roadside pavement Mecca which has excellent value for money and is high on the taste barometer. While the literal meaning of Hangla is ‘greed for food’ it actually refers to the Bengali penchant to joyously partake at the dining table. Stand on the pavement or by your car as you enjoy the smoky flavours that waft from the tawa and seep into your roll. Get your order packed or call for home delivery (they’re very prompt; if you’re lucky, they’ll be flexible with their `100 minimum rule). Most Bengalis give this place a thumbs up, which says all you need to know. Cuisines: They serve a variety be it Mughlai Paratha, Kolkata Rolls, Kebab, Chops, Momos, Paratha, Biryani, Rasgolla, Rasmalai and Mutton/Chicken Kasha. Special Features: They take party orders and corporate catering. Price: A meal of two costs 500. Timings: 12 am to 11:30 pm For reservations call: For home delivery, call 77380 61923 (Lokhandwala)/ 77383 64225 (Bandra)/ 77380 61918 (Powai)/ 98191 44880 (Goregaon)/ 77383 64226 (Malad)/ 97694 94869 (Kandivali) Scrumptious Starters, VITS Luxury Business Hotel Mumbai, Andheri (E) Toss into your mouth crispy, hot starters such as Jimikand ke Shammi, Paneer Tikka, Tandoori Bharwan Aloo, Hare Chane ke Sheek, Murgh Chaap, Chicken olive roll Skewer, Housseini Kebab, Chilli Garlic prawn and more. New Burger Menu, Burgs, Bandra (W) Some of the new Burgers are the Dijon Chicken – Chicken breast grilled to perfection, sautéed in a homemade mustard sauce; BBQ Lamb – a delicate lamb patty smothered with our special homemade BBQ sauce, Chilly Garlic Mayo, Chipotle Mayo and inferno sauce among others. Appetiser Special, Lotus Blossom, Juhu Enjoy Stuffed Green Chillies (Bhavnagri chillies stuffed with cottage cheese and ajwain), Paneer Gulgule (deep fried koftas of cottage cheese and peas, served on a bed of raddish), Dahi ke Kebab (delicate patties of mildy spiced yogurt served with a hot and sweet tomato sauce) and more. New Menu, Manchester United Café Bar outlets Hot selling items on the menu are Paneer Handi, Chicken Handi, Goan Prawn Curry, Paneer Ale, Dhingri Bhara Kebab, Galauti Kebab, Ajwaini Fish Tikka among others. Potato Wonders, 36Oak and Barley, Cumballa Hill Love Potatoes! Be here to enjoy Potato Wedges with Honey Chilli Dressing, Wok Tossed Potato in Thai Basil Soy Chilli/Kung Pao, Potato Rösti with Onion and Mushroom Fricassee, Pork Vindaloo with Mashed Potatoes. Monsoon Menu, NCPA Café, Nariman Point There’s an all new Khao Suey and Dimsum menu. The Khao suey is available in prawns, chicken and vegetables while the dimsum can be enjoyed with chicken and shrimp, chicken, mixed green and three mushroom. Salad Brunch, Vie Lounge And Deck, Santacruz (W) Enjoy a healthy combination of chilled soups, cold cuts, crisp salads, freshly squeezed juices, pasta and pizza station
Costly kitchen staples take flavour out of food Prices Of Onion, Potato & Tomato Hit The Roof Bella Jaisinghani TNN Mumbai: At a time when many people are eating one meal a day because of Shravan and Ramzan, the cost of the three most important kitchen staples—potato, onion and tomato—is now more than the normal average of Rs 10-12 per kg.     “Potato has come to cost 22 per kg in the past four days. For weeks it was selling at Rs 18, and we thought this was as expensive as this basic root can get. Onions have also become costlier by Rs 2-4 to reach Rs 14 per kg this past week. Tomato is already pinching the pocket at Rs 28-30 per kg. How is the common man expected to cook a basic meal,” asks Tardeo resident Shreeja Mazumdar whose double-income household is also forced to tighten its belt.     Trader Sudhir Sanas of Om Sai Enterprises says around 155-170 trucks carrying potato arrive at the APMC market in Vashi daily. “Over the past few days we have been only receiving around 130 trucks leading to ashortfall in supply. Onions are also selling for Rs 10 in the wholesale market, and naturally retailers mark up their margin by three to four rupees per kg,” he says.     Vasant Zunghare of Rakhi Traders points out that costs go up because both wholesalers and retailers lose some amount of produce in transportation due to spoilage in the monsoon. He says, “Potato is grown mainly in regions of Uttar Pradesh. The lack of rainfall this season has caused the crop in these places to fail, leading to slow arrivals. Moreover, our trucks cover an average of 1,300 km from UP to Mumbai. At least 15 kg of every 50 kg goes to waste because the root becomes soggy due to rain. Traders mark up prices to cover this loss as well.”     On Saturday, however, prices of potato dipped just a little in the wholesale market, sending a signal that some relief might be around the corner. “Still, by and large, potato will continue to remain costly over the next five to six months until the new crop is safely through,” says Zunghare.     The one bulb that has brought some solace is garlic. “Last year, the crop failed across Madhya Pradesh and Gujarat and retail prices shot up to Rs 250-350 per kg, up from Rs 50-60. As a result, farmers sowed more than the required quantity. This year, the resultant harvest has caused rates to fall to an unprecedented Rs 10-20 per kg in the wholesale market, and Rs 40-50 in the retail bazar,” says Sanas.     Ashok Walunj, the director of the onion-potato market at Vashi’s APMC, says, “Potato is not an essential item so whether it touches Rs 22 or Rs 30 per kg makes no difference to the consumer. The housewife will find a range of vegetables, like cabbage and cauliflower, to choose from. Onion, on the other hand, you cannot do without. This year, the rains are late by two months so the onion crop has been delayed. Later this year, you will pay Rs 25-30 for onions.”
10 foods available only in Ramzan Special dishes that make an appearance only during this month, promise a gastronomic feast. BT walks you through the city’s bylanes... Ismat Tahseen     At sunset, when daylight turns to an amber hue, and it is time to break the fast or roza, Mumbai awakens to the sights and sounds that are special to the month of Ramzan. Certain pockets and streets in the city are where you will find the choicest foods, prepared especially during the holy month. And one such place — the gourmet ‘hot’spot, quite literally is Mohammed Ali Road’s Minara Masjid lane and its surrounding area, filled with aroma wafting through welllit stalls and sweet shops, laden with goodies. Kebabs on hot coals, skewered meats on the sigdi, cold mithais and more — all jostle to be part of the fervour! Here are Ramzan culinary treats, that you can indulge your taste buds in, exclusively during this time… 1 HOT, OFF THE TAVA Across the road from Minara Masjid, this place serves piping hot tava food that takes over from the regular chicken roll fare. Owner Mohammed Asif informs that the bheja fry ( 90 for half plate) and gurda fry ( 100 for half plate) prepared during this time are the crowd favourtites. At: Khara Tank building, Bohri Mohalla. 2 CHICKEN 65 The road is lined with stalls selling spice-marinated chicken, skewered and strung onto rods. Once you order, they toss the chicken into the tandoor and it’s served hot and succulent. 3 KHIRI GOSHT Considered one of the most tender meats, khiri (made of the udders of the cow), has to be had steaming hot and with dollops of mint chutney, fresh onion and pudina leaves. While it’s available at Bar-B-Que, Khara Tank Lane, you will also find khiri sellers who fan the meat on fires along the Minara Masjid Road during this time. Also ask for the special khiri-kaleji mix. 4 SANDAN A sweet made of kheer and rice, it’s garnished with pistachios and resembles an idli. It is set in moulds and served cold. Priced at 15 a plate, you’re sure to have more than a few of these. 5 QUAIL Considered a delicacy, quail or bater makes an appearance here during this Ramzan. You first choose your bird; it’s then skinned, marinated and fried, and finally seasoned. The servings are not too large and you can choose between fried and gravy options. Bater is best had with pav. Available at the stall outside Islahi Dawakhna, EMM Road. 6 SHAHI TUKDA AND BLACKCURRANT FIRNI After that spicy fare, dessert must follow! Indulge yourself at Modern Sweets and Suleman Usman, with specialties like malpua, mawa and phool khaja (flaky pastry with a mithai centre) blackcurrant, mango and strawberry firnis, special to Ramzan. The butterscotch and dryfruit barfis are hugely popular, as well the shahi tukda (deep fried bread, soaked in sugar syrup, topped with rabdi and dry fruits, 65 a piece). 7 BAARA HANDI     Shops selling the special Baara handi do brisk business at Bohri Mohalla across the road from Minara Masjid. The dish does not actually comprise 12 vessels but a variety of meats such as paya (trotters), picchotta (tail) and a variety of dals, all slow cooked in the handis. The dishes are said to be prepared the previous night, so by the next day, the meat gets well marinated with the gravy, resulting in a mouth-watering broth. Have it with the crispy-thin khimiri roti. 8 HALEEM It’s a must to try a bowl made of gosht (mutton), ghee (clarified butter) and gehoon (cracked wheat), topped with spices and a delicious helping of fried onions, mint leaves and lemon. Haleem is cooked for 12 hours, in a copper vessel over firewood. The deghs (cauldrons) of haleem are found at Minara Masjid Lane as well as outside Jalil Cold drinks at Bohri Mohalla. Starts at 20 a plate. 9 FRUITY MILKSHAKES Forget the banana and strawberry variety, this time milkshakes come with thin pear and apple slivers as well muskmelon, making for a healthy, tasty beverage. Also ask for falooda mixes to add to your milk. 10 HAND-CHURNED ICE CREAM End the repast with creamy sancha (hand-churned) ice cream in sitaphal (custard apple, 500 a kilo), mango ( 500), roasted almond ( 320) and other yummy flavours — all at the 120-year-old Taj Ice Cream shop at Bohri Mohalla. Partner Yusuf Saraf Ali informs they get busy preparing large quantities from 10 in the morning to make sure it’s all ready for customers.     Ready to tuck in tonight?
Restaurant Review
Pietersen left out of India tour London: Kevin Pietersen has been left out of England’s Test squad for the tour of India as the controversial batsman pays the price for the text message scandal that has left his international career in tatters.     Pietersen was dropped for the final Test against South Africa after sending texts to opposition players that contained criticism of then England captain Andrew Strauss.     The South Africaborn star has since met England coach Andy Flower for clear-the-air talks, but there are still issues to be resolved and that meant there was no place for Pietersen on the plane to India.     While Pietersen remains in exile at present, England cricket managing director Hugh Morris left the door open for the 32-year-old to return to the fold in the future.     “Both ECB and England team management have had meetings with Kevin Pietersen to address the issues which led to his omission from the final Test match against South Africa,” Morris said on Tuesday. “These discussions remain private and confidential and as there are issues still to be resolved.” AFP     ENGLAND SQUAD Alastair Cook (cpt), James Anderson, Jonny Bairstow, Ian Bell, Tim Bresnan, Stuart Broad, Nick Comptonn, Steven Finn, Graham Onions, Eoin Morgan, Monty Panesar, Samit Patel, Matt Prior (wkt), Joe Root, Graeme Swann, Jonathan Trott TIMES VIEW: KP’s absence will be a big blow for Eng Kevin Pietersen’s absence will come as a big blow for the touring England side, which has struggled in India in recent times. England are already deprived of the retired Andrew Strauss and the presence of KP, a handy player of spin who is well-versed with Indian conditions, could have provided them the much-needed X-factor. However, it’s good news for MS Dhoni & Co, who will be heaving a sigh of relief at England voluntarily keeping out one of its main batting weapons. As for the Indian fans, they will miss the brilliance of KP during the bilateral series but would still be happy that KP will be free to light up things for Delhi Daredevils by being available for the entire IPL next year.
Some Fruit For Thought The political significance of mangoes and bananas     Robert Vadra’s tweet about ‘mango people’ in a ‘banana republic’ unfairly accusing him of having done shady deals with a major property developer has created a storm in a tutti-frutti cup. Both Team Kejriwal and the BJP have taken not only the First Son-in-Law of the Nation but also the Congress to task for his supposedly disparaging reference to the country’s aam admi as ‘mango people’ and his comparing India to a ‘banana republic’.     A BJP spokesperson has asked the Congress if it agrees with Vadra’s fruity description of India and Indians. But so far, no one seems to have sought to find out from the archetypal aam admi whether he feels slighted at being translated into a ‘mango man’. Indeed, instead of feeling insulted the aam admi might well feel flattered at being equated with what is often called the ‘king of fruits’, varieties of which – such as the alfonso – sell for astronomical prices way out of reach of aam admi’s aam pockets.     A parallel case was that of Shashi Tharoor’s tweeted reference to ‘cattle class’ travel, which according to some needlessly raised political hackles. Considering the sacred status accorded to the ‘gau mata’ in India, ‘cattle class’ travellers might be deemed to be even more privileged than those in first class, particularly if the carrier they are using happens to be the government-run Air India, which is arguably international aviation’s most notably exploited milch cow.     Similarly, being called a ‘banana republic’ may be no bad thing. While the term derives from a pejorative reference to small tropical countries whose main export is the fruit which belongs to the plantain family, in the Indian context the banana plays a key role in several social and religious ceremonies and as such has auspicious connotations. While the phrase to ‘go bananas’ denotes a lack of mental balance, the fruit in question is largely what you make of it, as corroborated by a remark attributed to Rajiv Gandhi when he was prime minister that in order to raise Indian productivity ‘humko yeh bhi banana hai aur woh bhi banana hai’.     At a time of soaring food prices, however, politicians are understandably chary of references to fruits and vegetables, knowing only too well that the path to electoral victory is strewn with slippery banana skins and that public displeasure at their performance can emphatically be expressed by the throwing of tomatoes, preferably of the rotten variety. All said and done, India’s ‘mango people’ know their onions and are only too aware that given half a chance, or even less, their netas would have them all be turned into pumpkins, the local name for which is kaddu, a colloquialism for a gullible yokel.
EXCEPTION HERE
No City For Young Women Killed by their own rules and those set by strangers Bachi Karkaria Mumbai has awoken again to a spectre that’s never really asleep. On November 7, a Spanish exchange student was raped in her flat. A day later Aryanka Hosbetkar had a corrosive chemical thrown at her face. These two women have been scarred for life, but they are luckier than Pallavi Purkayastha, who was not just savagely molested, but also murdered this August. All three were around 26 years old and were home alone in the early hours of the morning. They were not exceptions but a fact that we aren’t allowed to forget – shamefully, angrily, helplessly. These cases, and the legion of lookalikes, remind us that the liberating metro is only a sham. The new breed of smart independent women think they can live by their own rules, but they continue to be trapped.     And the city itself is an accomplice, now built in a way which ensures that they are lonely in a crowd.     All three of the recent victims had assumed that they were as safe as a house. The Spanish woman lived in upscale Perry Cross road; Aryanka in Worli, the bridge between the seductive poles of SoBo and Bandra; Pallavi’s Wadala is swiftly shedding its rags to emerge as the latest aspirant to flashy urbania.     Mumbai was the first, and for a long time the only workinggirl-friendly city. But its new breed of career women can no longer have the relaxed conversations that their predecessors shared with their neighbourhoods. The Lost Mohalla is an inevitable sub-plot of the narrative of upward mobility.     High-rise residential towers match the ambitions of these young women who come to ‘shake the pagoda tree’ of globalisation’s neo-colony. They stride through the landscaped podiums of these housing townships, laptop satchels swinging with their shiny manes. They work late, and then they latchkey into their company-rented flats. Sometimes there are partners, but mostly their boyfriends come and go, like their part-time maids, to service specific needs. They guard their privacy fiercely, because that’s what protects their new and most valued asset, independence.     But like all Faustian pacts, this now comes with a chilling price. They don’t want to know their neighbours, preferring to barricade themselves in Manhattan-like isolation. They have no use for the camaraderie of the borrowed onion. They have neither time nor inclination to bond with the homemakers who gather every evening in the garden; they remain aloof in the gym. They lack that automatic ice-breaker, children. These new habitats too are intrinsically impersonal. They may be multicultural, but it’s a mix, not a blend. So by choice and circumstance, these young women become the bigger outsiders in a community of strangers.     But they can also become victims of a more insidious set of rules. They may be able to safeguard their privacy, but their ‘bindaas’ independence is compromised by the mindset of their potential predators. Chafing caution becomes the most important tool in their survival kit. They have to be constantly conscious of the way they dress, of when they come home and with whom, For, in the building’s public spaces, they are exposed to security and maintenance staff, mofussil men unused to the metro’s insouciant matrix.     Pallavi had a live-in partner who wasn’t at home when the building’s watchman carried out his well -planned attack. He had tinkered with the electric supply, walked in with the electrician she had to summon, and pocketed her keys with which he made his second entry to rape. To him, this attractive lawyer who co-habited with a man not her husband seemed fair game. The break-in thief who saw the Spanish girl in bed found her sexually eligible simply because she was a foreigner. Aryanka’s attacker belonged to her own cycling group, but he didn’t think a woman had the right to refuse his overtures; she ‘deserved’ to pay for her defiance. As did the Mona Chowdhury, whose jilted lover hired six goons ‘just to slap her’, but one of whom slashed her face with a blade a week before the two recent attacks.     Sexual harassment is also increasing on the prowl. Conducting a straw poll in two very different audiences, Alyque Padamsee discovered that not a single woman had been spared, prompting him to launch the Izzat Ki Fauj. In Sheila Dikshit’s Delhi, such humiliations remain so endemic that no one even questions the innocuously dismissed eve-teasing unless it descends into molestation and murder, and even then eyebrows are raised at the fuss, and finger pointed at the victim. In Mamata Banerjee’s Kolkata, ‘the sexual is the political’, a ghoulish mockery of early feminism. Bangalore’s sudden metromorphosis is doubly disastrous for its career babes eager to embrace the new global culture; they are targeted by, both, local diehards and the lumpen hordes who have poured in criminally to exploit its new riches.     The urban dream on which the country has posited its future needs smart young women in equal measure. They have risen impressively to fulfil it. Should we punish them for it by turning our cities into a sexual nightmare?
OUT OF TURN Enter, the foreign middleman M J AKBAR Kapil Sibal plays many roles, some of them quite well. But he is inimitable when he turns caustic. Sarcasm descended from his heavy eyebrows with the full force of a waterfall when he taunted the Indian middleman during his advocacy for foreign retailers in the Lok Sabha debate on FDI. Shakespeare was never so bitter about Shylock as Sibal was about the “bichauli”.     That left one a trifle perplexed. What else is Walmart other than a middleman? Capital resources and management skills have added a dimension: it is both middleman and salesman. Does this make Walmart a compassionate, caring company that should win a Nobel Prize for shopkeeping? Unlikely. Last week the N e w Yo rk T i m e s— not a Marxist newspaper — reported how American onion farmers had been squeezed into despair by Walmart, which was selling their product at nine times the purchase price. (Onions have a devastating electoral history in India.) This week we discover that Walmart was among those responsible for the devastating fire at Bangladesh's Tazreen Fashions factory in which 112 were killed a fortnight ago. According to minutes of company meetings, Walmart's director of ethical sourcing, Sridevi Kalavakolanu, insisted that a low cost of shirts was preferable to the higher cost of workers' safety. Neither patriotism nor altruism is an asset on Walmart's balance sheet.     Top this up with the news that Walmart is under investigation in America, but not in India, for bribing Indian officials. So the debate is not really about the morality of middlemen. Nor is it about the presence of international retailers in India. They are already here, but as partners of Indians. What they wanted, and have now got, is the right to run their companies as they wish, without the implicit fetters of alliance.     This is not about economic reforms either. FDI policy was announced as part of a package, including permission for foreign investment in civil aviation and sections of media. Even the Left did not object. There was a time in the post-reforms era when Tata had to abandon a proposed domestic airline because it wanted Singapore Airlines as a partner. Our skies were considered sacrosanct. But things have moved on, as they have in so many other sectors.     It is not opposition for opposition's sake, or Congress' partners Mulayam Singh Yadav, DMK and NCP would not have either protested or introduced variations — NCP wants this boon anywhere but in Maharashtra. It is certainly not about communalism; if Mayawati thinks BJP is contagious she could have rallied behind Marxists. Mayawati should check with Justice Rajinder Sachar, author of the last major study on the economic plight of Indian Muslims. His commission concluded, as he repeated in a conversation with this columnist, that UP Muslims would be especially vulnerable to FDI in retail, because of multinational sourcing and selling practices.     Retail is a multi-faceted industry held together by a people-centric axis. There are different tiers for separate income levels. Multinationals, driven by a perfectly explicable focus on profit maximisation, squeeze all levels into a common business plan. This sacrifices traditional, generic relationships between source, supply and shop at the altar of an algebra determined by the lowest common denominator in costs, and highest common denominator in prices. They possess the muscle and skill to drive out competition. When the vulnerable are hit, the social cost is high.     Fourteen parties out of the 18 that spoke in the Lok Sabha debate were critical of FDI because they felt the need for some —the stress is on some —protectionism within the farm-retail chain. The new will replace the old; that is a law of time. But sensible nations fashion change through evolution, in phases, not sudden dislocation and displacement. Trust me: the labourer who pushes a sweat-soaked vegetable handcart in the summer of Delhi or Mumbai would much prefer to work in air-conditioned halls. He perspires for very modest returns only because it is better than nothing. He needs a place in another food chain before he is summarily evicted from his present one.     FDI is not about wages or wastage or farmers or prices. Multinationals are not committed to their host countries; they work for their shareholders, and do not hide this fact. It is simply that our government has decided to trust the foreign middleman more than the Indian one.     In 1973, Indira Gandhi was under pressure from inflation and popular anger. She was advised by the Left to recover lost political ground by nationalising the wheat trade. The Left was fashionable then. Nationalisation used to win votes, as it did for Mrs Gandhi in 1971. Mrs Gandhi said no. She understood the possible damage at village level and stopped. When the Left stepped into excess, she applied the brakes. The Right has is on a rampage now.
Leila Seth tells Mum how she became a suitable mother Shalini Umachandran | TNN     An Oxford- and Stanford-educated child who throws away an offer from the World Bank to write poetry is bound to cause his parents some worry. And when poet and novelist Vikram Seth first told his mother Leila Seth that’s what he intended to do, she tried to dissuade him. “I told him to take the job for five years, get the World Bank pension, and then write poetry,” said Leila. The first woman chief justice of a state high court recounted anecdotes, shared her fears of being a mother, and talked about balancing work and life in a session titled ‘Bringing up Vikram’.     “Where does one start? Who brings up a child? Is it the parents, the grandparents, the aunts and uncles, the school, the teachers, other relatives? And when does the bringing up end?” she asked during the half-hour talk.     In Vikram’s case it took a phalanx of relatives to bring up the boy who would grow up to become one of India’s best-known novelists. Apart from Leila and her husband Premo, there was Leila’s mother, her younger brother and his wife, her older brother and his wife, and her uncle and his German wife who lived in London.     “I often wondered if I was doing the right thing as a mother. How was I to create the fine balance between my work and the responsibilities of being a wife and a mother?” said Leila, who wrote her autobiography On Balance some years ago. Reassurance came from her firstborn Vikram who, when they were having a conversation about poverty in Patna, told her, “I’m so glad you don’t talk to me only about the price of onions and the stupidity of servants, like other mothers.”     Another big influence in Vikram’s life was the housemaster at the Doon School who introduced him to Western classical music and poetry and instilled in him a love for adventure. Vikram won a scholarship to Tonbridge, UK, when he was 16, but Leila was reluctant to let him go. “Drugs were rampant in British public schools,” she said. But Premo said they could not hold him back as it would leave Vikram disappointed and resentful. “We knew he was a loner, a complex child who loved swimming, chess, music and poetry,” she said.     Leila’s uncle agreed to act in loco parentis to the young Vikram, but the Seths could not send him pocket money due to the strict foreign exchange regulations. “He could not come home for holidays as it was too expensive. Vikram was going away,” she said. It would be a while before he returned. After Tonbridge, Vikram won scholarships to Oxford and Stanford. After he turned down the World Bank job, he tried to write poetry and self-published his first collection. No one responded.     “He realised he had to write novels to sustain his love for poetry, which is what he does now,” said Leila. Vikram moved back home for seven years while he wrote A Suitable Boy, his most famous book. “I have learnt that to love people, you have to hold your palm open, and let them go,” she said.
EXCEPTION HERE
EXCEPTION HERE
EXCEPTION HERE
EXCEPTION HERE
SHOP TALK Eating gets costlier as food prices skyrocket Potato, Tomato Rates Double In A Year Bella Jaisinghani TNN Mumbai: The rising cost of commuting in Mumbai would perhaps be easier to bear had inflation not unleashed a multi-pronged attack on Mumbaikars. In the past year, food prices have risen unabated in the absence of checks by the authorities. Typically, a vast difference is seen between not just wholesale and retail rates but in rates across localities as retailers push up margins to make unregulated profits.     Basic items, without which no meal is complete, have dented the budget of the salaried class. Beginning with breakfast items, like bread, eggs and milk, and going on to cooking oil, spices and condiments, each product has hit a new high in the past year.     At the peak of winter, when prices are usually at their lowest, common roots like onions and potato are selling at Rs 18 to 20 per kg. So are tomatoes. The average price for all three is Rs 10 to 12 per kg, maybe as low as Rs 8 in a good season. “Retail rates have doubled, it is true. But, wholesale rates have also risen from Rs 8 to 10 per kg to Rs 12 to 15. Consumers should not mind the hike if farmers are paid a better procurement price,” says Ashok Walunj, head of the APMC’s onion-potato market.     A small 400gm loaf of sliced white bread now costs Rs 18, up from Rs 12 to 14 a year ago. “Given that most households require one loaf a day, the increase translates to Rs 120 per month,” says Khar resident Sameena Gulrajani. “The cost of cooking oil is rising by Rs 5 to 7 every few weeks. Until 2009, safflower oil was stable at Rs 72 per litre. It now costs Rs 155, having gone up by Rs 25 in the past year alone. And the Planning Commission says Rs 32 per day is enough to sustain an individual in the city?”     The president of the Indian Bakers Association, Khodadad Irani, says, “The cumulative increase in input costs of maida flour, electricity, transportation and labour has pushed up prices of bread. Instead of branded bread, people are switching to ‘ladi pav’, which is unregulated in terms of weight and hygiene.”     Fakhruddin Shaikh, who runs Raza Oil Depot in Behram Baug, Jogeshwari, says, “A popular brand of coconut oil has risen from Rs 116 per litre in 2012 to Rs 220 per litre in January 2013. Consumers have no choice but to use less oil and restrict preparing fried foods.”     The budget for spices is another casualty. “Middle-class Lalbaug is paying twice the amount for common red chillis. Prices are up from Rs 100-120 per kg last year to Rs 180-200 this month. Apart from a shortage of arrivals, experts blame speculative trading on the stock market,” says Sanket Khamkar of Chivda Galli.     What upsets the consumer is the authorities’ lack of intervention. “I cannot see a single step that the government is taking to check hoarding, adulteration and price rigging by retailers. Tomatoes are selling for Rs 10 in Jogeshwari market while retailers in Bandra and Andheri are charging Rs 20. The mark-up, even by location, cannot be 100%,” says Avadhoot Mishra who lives in the western suburbs.     Last year, the state had announced a plan to end the monopoly of the APMCs and allow growers to deliver fresh farm produce to Mumbaikars directly. The plan remains in cold storage. “This scheme will not work in Mumbai,” declares Walunj. “Farms are 200km away. How can a grower hire trucks to bring produce to Mumbai? Where will he park his vehicle, who will unload the goods and how will he get paid on the spot?”
Airlines slash fares by 50% to keep biz afloat Fly To Delhi Till April-End For 2,100 Chinmayi Shalya TNN Mumbai: An unexpected bonanza greeted travellers on Friday as competing airlines slashed one-way domestic airfares to most destinations to Rs 2,100, inclusive of all taxes and charges. The sudden reduction predictably caused a mad rush to online travel portals, with people scampering to book tickets while the seats and the low fares last.     Airlines’ officials clarified that the fares were lowered for some seats on every flight between February and April. Also, reservations have to be made by January 13. Nevertheless, the 40-50% cutback in ticket costs proved to be considerable and a major lure. Round-trip fares from Mumbai to Delhi were trimmed from the usual Rs 7,000-9,000 to around Rs 4,000 from February 1 to April 30. Tickets to other popular sectors too were made available at similar rates.     The decrease in air ticket prices was sparked on Friday morning as low-cost carrier SpiceJet announced a special fare of Rs 2,013 for all domestic destinations across its network from February 1 to April 30. This means that a return trip during this period would cost just Rs 4,026. The airline put up for sale about 10 lakh seats under the special fare, of which it sold around 1.5 lakh seats on Friday. Such was the rush that SpiceJet’s website crashed and was unavailable for some time.     Soon, another budget carrier, IndiGo, also began offering discounts on a few but busy sectors during the same period, said tour operators.     The carriers’ move, travel experts believed, was triggered because of the anticipated low passenger loads in the coming months. Lean holiday travel numbers of December 2012 had created a sombre mood among carriers and they were expecting a dull period ahead.     “Airlines are neck-and-neck in competition. If one carrier lowers fares, others are bound to follow,” said Rajesh Rateria of Cirrus Travels. Food prices double in a year     It’s not the cost of commuting alone that has galloped in the past year. Basic food prices have soared, adding to the burden on the salaried class. While retail prices of essentials like onions and potatoes have doubled, a 400gm loaf of sliced white bread now costs Rs 18, up from Rs 12 to 14 a year ago. Spices have become tear-jerkers: Common red chillies now cost Rs 180-200 a kg against Rs 100-120 last year. Hapless consumers blame the government for its failure to check price rigging or curb hoarding. P 4 Travellers grab bargains as airlines duel for business Mumbai: A few hours after Spice-Jet launched its super-low domestic rates, another budget carrier, Indigo, followed. Although the airline did not go on record to announce the discounted fares, a sudden drop was noticed on many sectors such as Mumbai-Delhi, Mumbai-Kochi and even Mumbai-Goa.     Tour operators said the competition between the two low-cost carriers will benefit flyers as other budget airlines may similarly slash ticket prices. A Mumbai-Delhi return trip on other low-cost airlines between February and April is likely to cost around Rs 4,200-4,500. A trip to Goa from Mumbai will be priced in the range of Rs 5,000-6,000, and Mumbai-Jaipur tickets are liable to be available for Rs 5,000-6,000.     Travel experts said that after a major hike during Diwali airfares had remained grounded during the Christmas and New Year holiday season. “The travel season had been sluggish. Fares have been exceptionally low in January, despite it being domestic travel season. This explains why airlines are trying to ensure that their seats do not go vacant in the coming months,” said a south Mumbai travel agent. “Low airfares will continue till the demand picks up again during summer holidays.”     An official from a private carrier admitted the drop in fares was primarily precipitated by the “expected low passenger traffic. Hence, we are filling up certain seats at a lower rate”.
Restaurant Review ELLIPSIS Modern American     First of all, you won’t be able to spot this new restaurant (they haven’t put up a sign board); then you won’t be able to figure out it’s exact identity. By turns cozy and sexy, laidback and fleet, Ellipsis is different things at different times to different people, which is exactly what its young owner and chef meant it to be. Though it feels easy-going, it also attempts to preserve the core pleasures of fine dining. To deliver this mega voltage ambitious experience, the young owner Rohan Talwar, got in internationally renowned award winning Thomas Schoos (interiors,) NYC’s Death and company (the bar) and the Canadian chef Kelvin (progressive American dishes which comfort as well as innovate.) Quite clearly, Ellipsis is a trailblazer. So though, I’d already eaten here more than half a dozen times, I invite trailblazers to join me today. Theatre and TV personality, granma (believe it or not) of six, Sabira, along with industrialist husband Chottu Merchant, pioneered (in 1980) the stand alone discotheque and rocked Mumbai with their Studio 29. Their close friend (also my ma-in-law,) the feisty Delhi-based Mohini Bhullar (leading far from a quiet retired life after her long and successful publishing career, is always delighted to come back to Mumbai,) accompanies us over a sparkling Prosecco soaked dinner. That this restaurant serves the Italian sparkling wine on tap, by the glass, immediately wins over my guests. Their discerning, well travelled and refined palates are delighted. AMBIANCE Charming and unusual décor of the eclectic combination of styles, periods and textures. Two distinctly concepted floors with rustic, yet modern décor, statement chandelier, tiled tabletops, vintage paintings from every style and period over the last 100 years charm. FOOD Great news... I pop in for lunch alone (after many dinners) and find a price sensitive three course set lunch menu ( 1200 with sandwich and 1400 with main. Okayish French Onion Soup, authentic and tasty Jamaican Jerk Chicken, well-made creamy Crème Brulee). Simply divided into — Garden, Farm and Sea — the market-driven menu is printed daily. Many a dish offers a playful take on the traditional, and the dishes are meant for sharing. Three masterpieces: Outstanding meltingly succulent Pork Belly nestled within steamed buns sparkled with kimchee, apple butter and jalapeño. Love the contrasting textures and flavours of the Beet Salad (with cardamom, coffee, herbs, pickled vegetables and beet meringue) and the superb dessert interpretation of Rocky Road (an adult coffee ice cream, a sweet peanut butter one appealing to the child in you, cookie studded chocolate, caramelised marshmallow sauce.) Though my guests prefer the Hazelnut Lime Ganache, Sponge Cake. Caprese with goat cheese spheres is delightful too. On the dinner menu, the most expensive dish is the Rib Eye Steak at 2500, the average price per dish is 900. MINUS POINTS Though a great global experience, unfortunately it was initially served up at global prices too (especially the cocktails), which accounts for there being fewer diners. Some of the dishes go far off the mark, (thankfully they’ve taken the Mac n Cheese off the menu). Chicken and waffles served with foie gras butter is stodgy, flavourless heirloom tomatoes, over buttery gnochi. It’s the lunch with it’s flatbreads (low on salt) and sandwiches, Montecristo (interpretation of French toast), which is not on par with the dinner menu. As Sabira rightfully points out, we are not given serving spoons and the dinner is served on small share plates. MY POINT The word ‘ellipsis’ signifies three dots at the end of a sentence, which denotes that there is something more to come... and sure enough the youthful energy driving this Modern American dining concept, keeps more coming. Live performances every Wednesday at their cocktail hour, Sunday brunch (with live performances, 4000 eat and drink unlimited) wellpriced set menus. This hugely ambitious global experience venture with its global prices (cocktails 800-1200,) has now (thankfully) pruned its prices (cocktails 500-700). Some of the dishes are patchy but Ellipsis’s chef is ambidextrous, as comfortable using liquid nitrogen as he is in highlighting the natural flavours of the ingredients and serving up comfort.There is a triumph of technical accomplishment and flavours, and now (mercifully,) there is fine-tuning of prices too. FOODLINE WOW. Fabulous to be flooded with your Twitter, FB and Email feedback. Mail (rashmiudaysingh2013@gmail.com, FB, Twitter @rashmiudaysingh) or sms (77380 22873) to be listed here. Due to space constraint, I am unable to carry your messages.
SOME RELIEF Govt to lift curbs on edible oil exports Sidhartha TNN New Delhi: After lifting the export ban on 14 processed food items, the government is now likely to allow shipments of “higher-value” edible oil such as groundnut and mustard, as part of its strategy to move from a “switch off mode” on agricultural products to a “switch on mode”.     “There is demand for these oil products, especially among the Indian diaspora. So, there is a case for easing the restrictions,” said a government official. Besides, the commerce department has argued that temporary restrictions impact the credibility of Indian exporters apart from raising transparency issues. Several WTO members have also been critical of the government’s policy to clamp down on exports the moment there is a spurt in price of commodities — be it wheat, rice or onions.     The growing view in the government is that to deal with supply situations, levying duties, on exports as well as imports, is the best tool instead of banning exports. In any case, Indian exports are seen to be competitive in the global market, emerging as the largest exporter of rice.     As a result, the cabinet committee on economic affairs last week agreed to allow the export of processed agricultural products even in the event of restriction ban on export of basic farm produce. Although milk powder was also among items on which the curbs were to be lifted, given the “sensitivities” the cabinet panel has decided against putting it in the perpetually switch on mode.     As food inflation has shown some signs of moderation and productivity has risen, the government, in recent months, has eased restrictions on farm products.     The 14 items on which the restrictions have been eased generated a little over $630 million and in first half of the current financial year, exports are estimated at around $375 million. Despite the restrictions, India is a net exporter of farm products with shipments out of the country valued at $37 billion in 2011-12, against imports of around $17 billion.
Fishermen threaten to stop supplies over diesel hike Bella Jaisinghani TNN Mumbai: The city’s fishermen have threatened to stop supplies to Mumbai at the end of the week if the recent increase in diesel rates is not rolled back. A delegation of Kolis met Union agriculture minister Sharad Pawar and petroleum minister Veerappa Moily in New Delhi on Wednesday evening, urging him to revoke the hike amounting to Rs 11.62 per litre.     On December 31, oil marketing companies had raised diesel prices by 50 paise to Rs 53.69 per litre for motorists. But fishermen, who constitute bulk or commercial consumers, are now having to pay Rs 11.62 extra per litre. For them, the rate has risen from Rs 43 to Rs 54.62 per litre.     “At Wednesday’s meeting, Pawar urged Moily to address the concerns of Kolis as well as lakhs of fishermen across nine coastal states. A decision is expected at Thursday’s cabinet meeting,” said Damodar Tandel, president, Akhil Maharashtra Machhimar Kriti Samiti. “Most fishing activity along the coast of Maharashtra has come to a standstill since January 18. Barely 10-20% of boats are out at sea and these too will return to anchor by the weekend. There will be no fish in the market afterwards unless a rollback is announced.”     Nandu Bhave, who heads a fishermen’s union in Versova, also reported that the community had struck work since the fuel hike. Gaothans of Worli and Uttan echo a similar scenario. Reportedly, Sassoon Dock is only receiving 10-20 tonnes of fish each day as against a mean arrival of 200 tonnes.     Moreshwar Patil, secretary, Maharashtra Machhimar Kruti Samiti, said, “Moily cited the ‘losses’ faced by oil companies as a reason for raising fuel prices. But we are overburdened as well. Our fishing spaces are continuously shrinking owing to mushrooming oil rigs mid-sea. We are barred from fishing within a 2-km radius of these rigs.     “If farmers can receive agricultural subsidy for being food growers to the nation, we deserve similar benefits. After all, the sea is our farmland and fish is our produce. How can we be treated as commercial consumers, in the category of cargo companies?” Onion prices rise again, now a kg costs up to 25     Despite the food ministry’s assurance of a bumper onion crop last year, the price of the bulb has risen by Rs 4-5 in recent days. Retail consumers are paying Rs 22-25 per kg as against the last increase of Rs 15-18 per kg. Paradoxically, Ashok Walunj, who heads the onion-potato market in the Vashi APMC, said, “There is a crop shortage across the state owing to scanty rainfall, but we are receiving our usual arrivals of 125 trucks per day. Onion prices have risen to Rs 18-20 in the wholesale market. We expect them to normalize after February 15 once the new crop comes.” TNN
OUT OF TURN Is Rahul able and capable? M J AKBAR Nothing happens in a waiting room. 2013 is the waiting room for 2014. Do not expect too much excitement. Time will disappear through the passage of the predictable, occasionally diverted by a faint dread of what might happen once the great surgeon of democracy, the voter, gets his scalpel on the body politic in a general election.     A huge yawn greeted Mulayam Singh Yadav’s statement that there could be elections in September this year rather than March next year. Yadav’s support is crucial to the present government’s survival, and even a few months ago the shrill buzz provoked by this claim would have rattled window panes in every television studio. But no one took him seriously. He has become the boy who cried wolf and then laughed precociously at his little joke. The only people predicting a 2013 election are a few astrologers, and they have been around the block once too often.     In real terms it does not much matter whether elections are held early or on schedule. Patience is a democratic virtue. Voters take time to decide, but once they have done so they do not easily change. Politicians who see public opinion drift away always encourage the self-sustaining hope that some last-minute miracle will ensure survival. Bengal’s Marxists were palpably surprised by their defeat in the last Assembly elections, when no one else was. The famous British dictum that a week is a long time in politics is often repeated. It is equally true that a year can be a short time.     Voters know already that Dr Manmohan Singh is the last of the past. They are searching for the first of the future. If you cannot understand why Narendra Modi gets a rapt audience at a Delhi college, turn to the duller news items. We now learn that, despite the long sequence of illusion strung by UPA’s nominated cheerleaders, the Central Statistics Office predicts that GDP will grow at only 5 per cent in the coming year, the lowest in a decade and down from 6.2 per cent in the previous year. But, poor as this is, it is less politically harmful than the conclusions of another government body, the Institute of Applied Manpower Research, a think tank of the Planning Commission. It reported that despite becoming the world’s fourth largest economy, employment was not growing either in India’s non-agricultural sectors or overall. It described the Indian story as “jobless growth”.     The young like statistics as much as anyone else, but what they really want to read in newspapers is advertisements for jobs. Delhi’s college audiences believe that Modi can engineer and encourage the industrialisation that will create jobs, and has confirmed his credentials in Gujarat. That, in their lingo, is “awesome”.     The voter’s question about Rahul Gandhi is uncomplicated: what precisely has he achieved to justify a claim to become Prime Minister? Genetic entitlement is passé. Rahul is 42 but has never held a job in either the private sector or public life. A fitful presence in Parliament, interspersed with long holidays abroad, does not constitute a job. Rahul could have become a minister at any time in the last eight years, and proved he was competent, as, to take one instance, Sachin Pilot has done. Rahul has campaigned, sometimes with his sleeves rolled up, but that is not quite executive experience. And after three decades as a family borough, life for the poor in his constituency, Amethi, is far below voters’ expectations. The voter is influenced by facts, not claims.     It is a myth that the young are only searching for youth in a Prime Minister: they also want proof of competence. Age is less important than ability. When the young want glamour they go to the movies, not to Parliament.     This of course is only one factor in that complex potpourri called an Indian election; Modi’s increasing appeal, to state the obvious, still has to cross the acceptability barrier for many voters. The parliamentary system is not as personality-driven as the presidential, so local variations will throw up their own patterns.     The big danger for UPA lies in the possibility that government could lose sense of purpose in a year of drift. Politics does not offer the luxury of a gap year in governance. Schemes that were meant to kindle embers are already wandering in limbo. The Budget could provide a fillip, but finance minister P Chidambaram has a problem: there is simply no money left in the treasury for drama. Even defence is probably heading for a cut.     A waiting room does, however, provide both opportunity and time for prayer. UPA ministers should pray very hard that onion prices do not go berserk in February 2014.
Inflation eases to 3-year low of 6.62% Raises Hopes For Interest rate Cut To Push Growth; Food Prices Still High Times News Network TNN New Delhi: Inflation eased to a three-year low of 6.62% in January, bringing relief for policymakers and boosting prospects for an interest rate cut to support growth.     Data released by the commerce and industry ministry on Thursday showed the annual rate of inflation, based on monthly wholesale price index, stood at 6.62% in January compared to 7.18% for the previous month. Inflation moderated below the 7% mark for the first time since November 2009 when it stood at 4.73%.     The latest data comes against the backdrop of a string of disappointing numbers which raised doubts about the strength of Asia’s third-largest economy. The Central Statistics office (CSO) has forecast that the economy will grow by 5% in 2012-13, while the finance ministry expects it to be around 5.5% or slightly more.     Retail inflation data released earlier showed that price pressures were acute with the increase hovering around double digits for the past four months. Another comforting factor on Thursday was that the inflation for November remained unchanged at 7.24%, reversing a trend of sharp upward revisions for previous months. Policymakers have been predicting that wholesale price inflation, the main gauge of inflation in the country, will start moderating.     But food prices continued to remain stubborn. Vegetables rose an annual 28.5%. Onion prices, which have been under pressure for the past few weeks, shot up 111.5% year-on-year while potatoes rose an annual 79% in January. Food prices have remained stubborn for the past few years and have posed a policy challenge.     Policymakers said they expect inflation to moderate further and estimated it to be around 6.5% by end-March but urged the government to release food stocks to ease price pressures. “The decline in inflation is a welcome and reassuring sign. I expect March-end inflation to be 6.5%,” said C Rangarajan, chairman of the Economic Advisory Council to the Prime Minister.     “Retail inflation is still high. WPI inflation in primary and food articles are still at higher levels. Efforts should be made to release larger stocks of food articles in the market,” Rangarajan said.     Economists said the latest data raised hopes of a monetary easing when the Reserve Bank of India reviews policy.
Raw And The Cooked Runaway food prices highlight the need to unshackle the farm sector     Why isn’t aam admi smiling? The question’s relevant, since some cheer’s apparent in government circles over wholesale price indexbased inflation falling to 6.62% in January. Headline inflation, it’s said, will drop further by March-end. To common people, the WPI inflation figure’s a meaningless number. If WPI inflation’s dipped a fourth successive month, food prices have been riding high for far longer.     Policymakers periodically recommend release of foodgrains from government stocks to cool food inflation. While timely action in this regard is required, are we to assume ordinary folks eat wheat and rice but not vegetables and fruits? Onion price shot up 111.52% in January, from 69.24% in December 2012. Potatoes, rising 79.07%, and other vegetables also became dearer. That translates into more than just statistics for shoppers. Nor is it enough to attribute their woes to hoarding and cartelisation. With food bills soaring for a while now, why haven’t the authorities yet managed an effective crackdown?     Let’s face it. In a nation with growing and changing food demands, we’ve done little to address supply-side bottlenecks widening the gap between farm-gate and retail prices. Nor have we adequately pushed diversification beyond farmland-hogging cultivation of foodgrains. Even when we act, reform doesn’t go far enough. Take multi-brand retail FDI. We want much-needed capital to help create integrated supply chains and promote agri-business. But foreign retailers seem spooked by our stringent entryrelated conditions. They’re to invest a minimum $100 million, of which 50% must go to building back-end infrastructure. Plus they’re mandated to sizably source domestic suppliers. Lukewarm response to the government’s nod to retail FDI isn’t surprising.     We should also ask if lengthy Centre-state confabulations on amending the APMC Act will dilute populist opposition to giving retailers direct access to farmers. While delisting perishables from the Act’s ambit is desirable, states must be incentivised to junk a law that’s long coddled vested interests by limiting farm produce sellers to government-specified mandis. Besides encouraging contract farming, we must promote competition by ensuring that stifling stipulations on sales and restrictive state levies don’t hinder movement of commodities. Let’s boost farm incomes via access to markets rather than deepen farmers’ reliance on subsidies and support prices that both stoke inflation. Only by unshackling agriculture can we harness its productive potential, deliver food security and attract investments to a sector in need of upgrade in areas from irrigation to R&D. Politicians who argue otherwise care for neither struggling farmers nor inflation-hit consumers.
Restaurant Review CESKY Modern European     Three points to keep in mind about Cesky, Powai’s latest and upscale Modern European restaurant: there is no à la carte here (fixed Degustation menus only; 7,000+ for a seven course and 3,500 for a three course menu) and it is only open for dinner. Also, every single ingredient used by Masterchef Christian Cilia (of London’s La Brasserie) has been imported (‘including the salt’). AMBIANCE Surprisingly enough, this ambitious restaurant is located just off the noisy bar. This pleasantly appointed, very highceilinged space (with very large propeller ceiling fans), enrobed in white and set off with black, was empty when we visited it on a Friday night. My guest, Siddhartha Bajaj, who works in real estate equity is not only a dish, he’s also formidably charming and one of the most patient men I know. I generally hang about with him and our common close writer pal SDS, but this time Nina Vasa and I were lucky to monopolise him. The exuberant Nina loves her work, people and life, and her cheesecake is legendary. We all noted the very high-end crockery, cutlery and glassware, lighting and a tiny open kitchen where Chef Christian Cilia cooks. FOOD We had no choice but to stick to the Degustation Menu. The meal (made only with ingredients imported from England) started off on a very promising note, with the finest Beluga Caviar and Champagne Sorbet. Intense and delightfully rich and flavoursome white Onion Veloute followed. Perfectly Seared Foie Gras was next. We were informed that Christian Cilia’s changing menus boast of Cauliflower Panna Cotta with Vanilla Jelly; Fillets of Veal served with Seared Foie Gras; Mushroom Jus New Zealand Lamb with Barley Risotto and more. Sophisticated and artfully minimalistic plating, international wines to compliment the dishes and swift service too. Gem-like tasty petit fours complete each meal. MINUS POINTS When you are paying over 7000 per person, the least you expect is a quiet exclusive space. Instead, it is almost like an extension of the bar, with just a glassed-off partition. The noise and the thumping piano from there tampers with the exclusivity of the experience. The bland and somewhat-tasteless Smoked Haddock with Salsify Pea Purée made it worse. As did the tiny serving of Beetroot Sorbet with Goat Cheese which came next. A lacklustre Chocolate dessert too. We also requested for a vegetarian three course option but since we hadn’t requested in advance, it was a skimpy (pasta and salad) one. MY POINT With all the global emphasis on freshness and local ingredients, it is a bit out of place that importing of all ingredients (‘including salt’) should be touted as such a USP. Even so, a more private and secluded restaurant space, à la carte menu, lowering the prices and upping the taste and flavour quotient is needed. FOODLINE It’s sunny and bracingly chilly in Paris and it’s great to be connected with you on Twitter, FB and Email feedback. Mail (rashmiudaysingh2013@gmail.com, FB, Twitter @rashmiudaysingh) or sms (77380 28783) to be listed here. Due to space constraint, I am unable to carry your messages. READERS RECOMMEND • Sushma Saksaria of La Devi provides quality gourmet food from all over the world (quinoa; couscous; French vegan nut butters; Japanese and Italian glutenfree dressings; Spirulina Spaghetti; and honey and flower juices from auroville. Ph: 022-2269 1599/98211 12626. • Innovative indulgences (signature Mawa, Malai and Tutti Frutti), yummy Fresh Fruit with Chocolate. A day’s notice and a one kg minimum order needed. Ph: 022-2878 0530/93244 20444. • Veenu Dembla for her handmade dry flower arrangement adorned with homemade chocolates. Almond Chocolate Baskets, cakes with Chocolate Oreo and more. Ph: 98920 13261. QUERIES ANSWERED • Pauru for prawn pickle you can call Nargish Lala. Ph: 022-2208 5198/ 6507 9177/98190 02500. QUERIES • Savio is looking for a Japanese caterer. • Odelia is looking for caterer who can arrange a party in Alibaug. PARIS — MY PARADISE I’m on zero gravity here. Multiple reasons: foodies of the world have converged here... It’s the largest cookbook fair of the world, (doubled the space from last year.) Superb cookbooks from all over the world, registered visitors are 18% from France, 48% from Europe and 34% from outside France. Edouard Cointreau’s París cookbook fair is a treat to beat all treats. He has over 1,000 guests from 61 countries at the Gourmand Awards. And then to top it all, I am in the legendary George V, the hotel of Kings and the King of hotels. They’ve mastered combining luxury with comfort and now added on the most unique specials for kids (including a crockery line with a famed french cartoonist). Michelin starred dining, a serene indoor pool surrounded by statues and art and caring service... if this is not paradise, what is?
Govt banks on rate cut as inflation moderates TEAM TOI New Delhi: The need for interest rates to come down for boosting growth has been forcefully conveyed in the Economic Survey unveiled on Wednesday.     The Survey, which is a snapshot of the economy, makes a strong case for interest rates to ease and also identifies high interest rates as one of the factors that hobbled growth. “The government is committed to fiscal consolidation. This along with demand compression and augmented agricultural production should lead to lower inflation, giving the RBI flexibility to reduce policy rates,” the Survey said.     “Lower interest rates could provide an additional fillip to investment activity for the industry and services sectors, especially if some of the regulatory, bureaucratic and financial impediments to investments are eased,” it added. It also said that policy rate cuts by the RBI and improving business sentiment could support investments.     The central bank had tightened monetary policy to tame stubborn inflation. It had also said that only a credible fiscal consolidation plan would help in moderating rates. The survey said with moderation in the non-food manufacturing sector and global commodity prices, headline wholesale price index-based inflation may decline to 6.2%-6.6% in March 2013. But it cautioned that the recent increase in onion prices and revision in diesel prices may put some pressure.     It also said that elevated food inflation remains a concern. The Survey, which is prepared by the finance ministry, said there has been some moderation in inflation in the third quarter of 2012-13 and with the expected fiscal consolidation the current macro-economic situation creates elbow room for a more accommodative monetary policy.     “Further, with a significant part of inflation getting generated because of poor supply responses, a further shift in the policy stance of RBI, coupled with improving access to credit with moderation in cost, would be desirable,” the Survey said.It said the RBI has to weigh the costs of rapidly slowing growth against the persistently high consumer price index or retail inflation.
RESTAURANT WATCH Oriental Express @ The Leela Mumbai, Andheri (E) What: Oriental Express at The Great Wall, The Leela Mumbai, Andheri (E). When: 12:30 to 3 pm Price: Rs 1,050/- plus taxes Features: Savour a quick Executive lunch including soup, main course and dessert at The Great Wall - the classical Chinese restaurant at The Leela Mumbai. A complete and balanced meal mastercrafted by Chef Suen, the medley of mouth tingling sauces, fiery appetisers and belly braised meats brings in the complex earthy spiciness and engaging interplay of flavours. The menu is complemented by an assortment of six Chinese teas to suit your palate. All this, well within your lunch hour! As part of this, Chef Suen offers a plethora of options to choose from including Sichuan chilli chicken with peppercorn, lantern chillies and green onion; Braised tofu and assorted vegetables in brown sauce; and Sichuan style stir fried chicken with hot peppers, followed by tantalizing desserts like Mango pudding Cantonese style and Fried banana with ice cream. Call: 022-66911324
J U G U L A R V E I N A raw deal The cap on subsidised LPG will improve our financial and physical health Jug Suraiya What are we having for dinner? i ask Bunny. Salad, she replies. But we had salad for lunch, i protest. So we did, and we’re also having it for dinner; and for tomorrow’s lunch, and tomorrow’s dinner, says Bunny.     This is a preview of a conversation Bunny and i are likely to have in the not-too-distant future. The reason for this conversational exchange is not that out of choice we’re suddenly going to become gung-ho health faddists and go on a radical carb-free, calorie-free all-salad diet.     The reason for our going on a carb-free, calorie-free all-salad diet – 365 days a year, birthdays, wedding anniversaries and religious festivals not excluded – is not choice but necessity: a necessity necessitated by the huge price difference between the subsidised and the non-subsidised price of the liquefied petroleum gas (LPG) used for cooking. A price difference that was brought home to us, literally, the other day when the LPG man made his last delivery. Bunny handed him the 480 that we, along with everyone else, had got used to paying for a cylinder of LPG. The LPG man shook his head. It’s not 480, it’s 900; you’ve run through your annual quota of subsidised cylinders and now you’ve got to pay the full market price, said the LPG man.     So Bunny forked out 900 from the household hisaab money she’s in charge of, and did some quick calculations. The upshot of her calculations was that we could either afford non-subsidised cooking gas at 900 bucks a pop, or we could afford food which the gas would cook; we couldn’t afford both.     So what do we do; eat cooking gas instead of eating food? i asked. You can’t eat cooking gas; we’ll have to eat food which doesn’t need cooking and cooking gas, said Bunny, and went off to find a recipe book for uncooked food. Which is where our future conversation comes in.     By capping the quota of subsidised LPG, the sarkar has done a very clever thing: it has put the country on a diet of salad, which is just about the only dish you can eat which requires no cooking. By putting us on a salad diet, the sarkar has ensured both our financial as well as physical health.     By making us pay the unsubsidised price of LPG, the sarkar will reduce its fiscal deficit which is weighing down the economy. This reduction of the fiscal deficit will be good for the country’s economic health. By making us eat uncooked salad, the sarkar will make us reduce our body weight. This reduction of body weight will be good for our physical health, as everyone knows that too much body weight can lead to high BP, diabetes, coronary disease and – for all we know – Grade Three dandruff in the nostrils.     There’s only small hitch in the sarkar’s otherwise brilliant health strategy. The price of veggies being what it is – and going up every day – who the heck can afford to eat salad? Tomatoes? Onions? Lettuce? Yeah, sure. And while we’re at it, how about throwing in some rubies and emeralds as garnish? Fortunately, salad apart there is one dish that requires no cooking and is also totally carb-free and calorie-free. In fact it’s totally free, in all senses, and it’s what the sarkar will have us all switch to: it’s called love and fresh air.     jug.suraiya@timesgroup.com     http://blogs.timesofindia.indiatimes.com/jugglebandhi/ 
Petrol to be cheaper, diesel to cost more TIMES NEWS NETWORK New Delhi: Petrol is expected to become cheaper by about Re 1 a litre from Friday midnight as state-run fuel retailers pass on the benefit of lower international prices during the last fortnight.     Simultaneously, the fuel retailers are also expected to raise diesel price by 50-60 paise a litre in line with the government’s decision in January to ramp up pump prices in small doses till the subsidy is wiped out.     Sources said IndianOil Corporation, the country’s biggest fuel retailer with over 50% market share, is expected to announce the cut on Friday.     Company chairman R S Butola and director (finance) P K Goyal are expected in Delhi on Friday for consultations on pricing with their counterparts in Hindustan Petroleum and Bharat Petroleum. The two are in Udaipur for a company HR conclave.     Once IndianOil announces the cut, the other two companies are expected to follow suit with a gap of a few hours and maintain a difference of 2-3 paise in their rates to avoid allegation of cartelization from private refiners such as Reliance and Essar.     The reduction in petrol price would come after two rounds of increases since February. Pump price of petrol was raised by Rs 1.50 a litre on February 16 and then by Rs 1.40 per litre from March 2. Both the increases were excluding state tax.     Petrol is sold at Rs 70.74 a litre in Delhi. Since the last revision, gasoline – trade name for petrol -- has come down in benchmark regional trading hubs to about $120 per barrel from $131 a barrel at the time of the last revision. The rupee too has marginally appreciated against the dollar to Rs 54.11. Inflation edges up to 6.84% in Feb High Food, Fuel Prices To Blame RBI May Still Go Ahead With Rate Cut New Delhi: Inflation surprisingly edged up in February on the back of high food and fuel prices, but expectations of an interest rate cut still persist.     Data released by the commerce and industry ministry on Thursday showed the annual rate of inflation, based on monthly wholesale price index (WPI), stood at 6.84% in February compared to 6.62% for the previous month and 7.56% during the corresponding month last year.     The government also revised upwards the inflation number for December to 7.31% from the previously reported 7.18%, which highlighted the still stubborn price pressures in the economy.     Moderating headline inflation has raised expectations of an interest rate cut by the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) to support faltering growth but high retail inflation has remained a concern. The moderation in core inflation below the 5% mark in February boosted prospects for an interest rate cut.     Experts said that RBI is expected to ease its tight policy to boost growth and sentiment. Growth is estimated to slow to a decade’s low of 5% in 2012-13 but the finance ministry expects it to be closer to 6% and then recover from next year.     “WPI-based inflation rose to 6.84% in February 2013 after falling to a three-year low of 6.62% in the previous month,” ratings agency Crisil said in a note. “However, core inflation — an indicator of demand side pressures on prices — fell below the 4% mark for the first time in the past 35 months, strengthening the case for a repo rate cut by the RBI on March 19,” the agency said.     The February data showed that price pressures remained in cereals which rose an annual 19% while pulses shot up 15%. Eggs, meat and fish prices soared 12.85% year-on-year compared to the 10.81% increase in the previous month.     Vegetable prices moderated, rising 12.11% in February compared to the previous month’s increase of 28.45%. Onion and potato prices continued to witness a steep upward trend with onion rising an annual 154% in February and potato going up 46% yearon-year. Fuel and power segment shot up 10.47% in February, rising from the previous month’s increase of 7.06%.     The finance ministry believes the fiscal consolidation unveiled in the 2013-14 Union Budget has created enough room for the RBI to ease the tight monetary policy. The RBI has also welcomed the budget move which analysts say could prod it to move on rates.     “There has been some very welcome, although much delayed, action on correcting both the CAD (current account deficit) and the fiscal deficit over the last six months,” RBI governor D Subbarao said in a speech in London on Wednesday.
Restaurant Review PIER European/ Global     The world maybe my oyster, but I love my Colaba with passion. Here, the past Bombay coexists seamlessly with the present Mumbai, here poverty and glamour do a mujra and that eternal temptress, the sea, is always an airkissing distance away. So when I hear that a brand new restaurant has opened on the tip of my dagger-shaped Mumbai, what do I do? First, get feedback from restaurant-knowledgeable Mumbaikars. Says our city’s most discerning vegetarian gourmet Harsh Goenka, “Pricing ok, food very so-so, ambience makeshift.” On the other end of the spectrum is the non-vegetarian epicure Kaikhushru Dinshaw, “Excellent food and service, reasonable pricing (including wine,) nice ambiance, will definitely go back.” I dine here twice with two international jet-setters, both combine beauty with brains and a discerning palate too. Dr Jamuna Pai, the most sought after aesthetic and cosmetic physician and Rita K Mehta, ex-editorfounder-owner of popular film magazine for over 30 years, have plenty to exchange notes about. Their animated conversation ranges from anti-aging guru Jamuna’s three high-end Mumbai clinics, Pune too and Delhi all set to open, to Rita’s current media syndication house and Marketing and Consultancy, and of course, Pier’s food. They approve. DÉCOR Opened on March 1, there are several things “Pier” is not. It’s not a café, it’s not a fine dine. It’s also not a seaside thematic restaurant. Okay, so it IS located across the street from the sea (near Radio Club). And yes! It is a smart casual restaurant. Don’t get put off by the dimly lit, ho-hum décor of this large, roomy restaurant with a long backlit bar. FOOD The European/Global menu does a good balancing act between casual (Truffled Eggs, Beef Burger) and sophisticated (Duck Confit, Pork Belly). Ex Indigo chef Ratish Dhabri’s menu has almost an equal number of vegetarian and nonvegetarian dishes. For me, it’s the meltingly flavoursome Duck Confit (with snow peas and bacon bits and garlic mash) that comes out on top. Creamy goat cheese on caramelised apple with walnut brittle is a masterpiece of textures. The White Quinoa Tabouli Salad with its three pepper drizzle passes muster and the French Onion Soup as well as the unusual Edamame Ravioli are must tries. Well-made Crème Brulee, and Vanilla Panna Cotta delight. MINUS POINTS Lacklustre décor and some dishes to match it... be it the overcooked country hen, ditto for the Prawn and Avocado Starter. Soggy Truffled Eggs, Eggplant with Zucchini Parmigiana disappoint, as does the tasteless Pumpkin Soup. The Beef Burger’s patty is chewy. Capuccino Souffle is a flop. MY POINT Colaba’s newest arrival is a place where you can treat a business associate or a family member to a dinner that feels sufficiently special and not bust the bank. Average meal per head is 1500 (innovative cocktails 325 to 500, wellpriced booze). It’s a place you can take someone who might be a date (but, then again, might not,) and leave your designs ambiguous, your options open. However,     some of the dishes do not rise to sublime heights, some are entirely forgettable, vegetarian options need to be improved. I’m happy to note that the 32-year-old owner Samir Chhabria openly acknowledges his gratitude to Rahul Akerkar (Samir worked for over a year in Indigo’s Kitchen), so though the now-comatose location (which used to be buzzing with Tetsuma and Prive here) needs to get a shot in the arm and the décor revamped, Pier is a restaurant to keep an eye on and to go back to. FOODLINE Just back from Delhi and delighted to be flooded with your Twitter, FB and E-mail feedback. Mail (rashmiudaysingh2013@gmail.com, FB, Twitter @rashmiudaysingh) or sms (77380 28783) to be listed here. Due to space constraint, I am unable to carry all your messages. READERS RECOMMEND     Schroff’s offers three healthy things jams, pickles and squashes, all preservative free. Zinobia also offers catering for kitty and large parties (Parsi food is the specialty). Ph: 2413 5650/98699 14472.     Sona the Party Shop offers you for your child’s party Dj, game compere, hosting, amusements, tattoo artist, hair braiding, nail art, pottery, balloon sculpting, glitter mehendi, magic show, animal magic show, fire show, ventriloquism, limbo dancing and more. Kiddy fun game stalls — gun shooting, ring tossing, bowling, remote car racing, trampoline jumping, rock climbing, electronic toy rides, moonwalkers, among others. Ph: 2640 2493.     Nicola has a wide array of chocolates to offer. Flavoured options include mint, coffee, coconut, raisins, ice cream and even liquor. Her Rum Raisin and Cherry Bandy are particularly popular. Her Ice cream chocolates are also wonderful delights. Ph: 2521 1819/93220 37555.     Thandai and sharbats are best during the hot Mumbai summer! Rajasthani Mahila Mandal also takes orders for Thepla, Chakli, Farsaan, Chidwa, Mathri, Bhelpuri, Kanji Vada, Kachori and Samosa. There are papads, achaars and masalas too on offer. Ph: 2612 8083. QUERIES ANSWERED Zeenat Poonawala, for yellow moong dal halwa, you can call Sima Gupta. She offers a range of authentic Rajasthani style halwas like moong dal, aloo, badam, etc. Ph: 6791 3992/99203 80101.
STREET FOOD RELISH ON PAPAD CHAAT! Rashmi Sanzgiri discovers the delicious and lip-smacking papad chaat in the by lanes of Bhuleshwar TRY THIS OUT! It's time to go beyond the regular line of chaats like sevpuri, bhel puri et al, and try some lip-smacking papad chaat. Yes, you read it right! Walk in the by lanes of Bhuleshwar, and enter a small lane — Khau galli, as the name suggests, it has various food stalls serving local delicacies. And one of the stalls dishes out papad chaat — the crispy and spicy chaat peppered with different veggies and chutneys.     Explaining the popularity of this chaat, vendor Digvijay at Khau galli, says "people are bored of eating the regular chaats, and they want to try something different. Papad chaat is something different and is equally appetizing." PREPARATION The thick large-size papad made of wheat and maize flour are roasted over a coal sigdi, and it is smeared with a dollop of butter, followed by two different kinds of chutney — red and green. It is then topped with finely chopped vegetables like tomatoes, cucumbers, onions, and finally garnished with sev, chaat masala and coriander on it. The chaat has many varieties to offer, for instance Jain masala, lasun papad chaat and cheese papad chaat. AVAILABILITY This chaat is available in different pockets of Mumbai like Zaveri Bazaar, Bhuleshwar, Gamdevi, and Vile Parle.     The demand for papad chaat has gone even further. It is no more restricted as a street food, but one can also see the 'papad chaat' stalls in the weddings and parties." The demand for this chaat has given us a chance to collaborate with several caterers in the city, this chaat is certainly going places," says Rajkumar, another papad chaat vendor. PRICE Rs 25/ - per serving
Restaurant Review OYE KAKE Punjabi     Balle balle! And then again Balle balle! This is a double whoop of joy. Firstly, the true-blue Punjabi in me is rejoicing to have eaten at this authentic, tiny dhaba in the Fort area. The second whoop of joy is for the legendary actress of yesteryear, Shobhna Samarth (immortalised for her role as Sita. I fell madly in love with this exuberant-greatfun granma when I interviewed her, Tanuja and Kajol for my TV programme “Kal, aaj aur Kajol”). It’s a treat to be lunching with Shobhna’s son Jaideep, who, though not into acting, is making waves with his hugely successful foray into digital media. It is his charming wife, ex Air France manager, Shaila, who guides me to ‘Oye Kake’ since she has been here several times before. I happily marinate myself in four generations of this film family’s anecdotes, including foodie ones (Shobhna was a brilliant cook and foodie as is her great grandson Neal). DÉCOR Wedged into the grey, dull street is this tiny dhaba which is bursting with colour and vibrance. Parandis, matkas, murals, basic steel chairs are crowded into this small, airconditioned space. A sardarji sits at the counter... good sign! Turns out to be the managing partner. FOOD Let’s get this straight, this is a pure vegetarian Amritsari dhaba (and that’s the way many are in Amritsar, contrary to your clichéd expectations about Tandoori Chikunn). The best-in-town, outstanding, crisp Tandoori Stuffed Parathas (mooli, gobi, aloo, even pyaz and corn. It’s a complete meal, served with buttery Dal Makhani and curd. 119). I am informed they get water from Amritsar for their Parathas and Kulchas. Happy to find Punjabi staples (served in very few eateries) like Dahi Kadi Chaval with it’s authentic tangy whisper and Rajma Chaval too (makes for a complete meal at 119 each). The Chole Kulche (though not like the iconic Cream Centre’s fabulous airy, crisp ones) are tasty. The luscious Mithi Lassi has Jaideep scooping it out of his glass with a spoon, happily! Delicous Phirni and okayish Rabdi complete our meal. Jain options served on request. MINUS POINTS Located in a crammed street, parking impossible. Oye Kake has its flaws, little elbowroom and big noise among them. The decorations do go a tad overboard. Hariyali Tikka, bit too spicy and stringy and Achari Paneer Tikkas too slushy. The Paneer Tikka Masala struggles to transcend soggy masala as does the Bhindi. My friends Gaurav and Sonica Arya went back the next day, loved the food but reported that the Gulab Jamuns were not only hard but also served cold. Ours were spongy and warm. No alcohol and please remember, no non-veg. MY POINT Oye Kake is a delight. It is the brainchild of four youngsters (average age 26 years) Pankaj and Swapna Gupta, Abhir Dhawan and Hardeep Singh. No parking, no alcohol, no non-vegetarian, but Oye Kake’s authentic, well-priced Punjabi vegetarian fare will have you doing the bhangra. Oye! FOODLINE Fabulous to be flooded with you Twitter, FB and E-mail feedback. Mail (rashmiudaysingh2013@gmail.com, FB, Twitter @rashmiudaysingh) or sms (77380 28783) be listed here. Due to space constraints, I am unable to carry your messages. READERS RECOMMEND     Try Nirmala Popat’s homemade Mukhwas made with good ingredients like paan, hari patti, gulkand, coriander and menthol. Check out her Anjeer and Gundar Paks. Ph: 2561 5433/98205 19888     Le 15 Gourmet Classes teaches Fresh Pasta making, Quiches, Soufflés, Cupcakes, Truffles and more. Professional (international) chefs conduct classes. Ph: 97692 86544/98204 87727     Jasbir Kaur Renu supplies Punjabi veg and non-veg tiffin for lunch and dinner from Borivali to Churchgate. Ph: 93212 48874/97020 54936.     Iris cakes and candies offers a yummy range of mouth-watering treats from her home kitchen. Indulge in her signature Chocolate Mud cake, the fudgiest Brownie and exquisite Easter Bling concoction of marzipan and chocolate eggs crafted to tickle your distinctive palate. Ph: 98206 05525. QUERIES ANSWERED     Chaitali, for kiddy birthday party for 30 people you can call Monali (98191 32569) or call Banoo Jasubhouy — Fit Kids Fun Factory on 98209 37904.     Zeenat Poonawala, for yellow moong dal halwa call Sima Gupta. She offers a range of authentic Rajasthani style halwas like moong dal, aloo, badam, etc. Ph: 6791 3992/99203 80101. QUERIES     Kavita would like to know of someone who delivers great homemade food, veg/ non-veg, preferably for lunch and especially dinner in Juhu.
EXCEPTION HERE
Restaurant Reviews NEW YORK EATING OUT GUIDE We muscle our way through heedless pedestrians and flag down sullen cabbies in our favourite, manic Manhattan. Here, my son Dhruv and I are setting out for an event which rivals going to the theatre or opera and even more to a blood sport. The coffee and adrenaline-fuelled denizens of this daggershaped island are as fixated about having the right brand of ipod, mobile, gym membership and most importantly, the right restaurant reservations, made months ahead (like we did.) Eating out in New York City is serious stuff. It didn’t start that way when Delmonico’s, the very first restaurant was set up over 180 years ago. Immigrants in the melting pot, the World fair of 1939 accelerated the globalisation of food here. Come join us on a gourmet safari in NYC’s frenetic jungle, where buildings needle the sky and flavours implode on the palate. DELIS, PIZZAS AND DOGS You just gotta do it like the Noo Yawkers do it. Eat the steaming, paper-thin heaps of Pastrami overflowing from a sandwich (I prefer Katz Deli in East Houston, over Carnegie) glugged with Dr Browns Cream Soda. Though miles away from Italy, Manhattan is pizza lovers haven. Lombardi’s (Spring Street) is my choice, though you can pick up a slice most anywhere and munch on it as you hoof your way down the street. As for those hot-dog street vendors (most of them are crappy, except for Papaya King, East 86th Street,) but you gotta chomp on it. Atleast once! THE SUBLIME TO THE SIMPLY DIVINE Multi-course meals (I checked out vegetarian courses too), languorously spread over hours, touching gastronomic peaks with prices to match (average $200 per head). Eleven Madison Park The best of the best. It’s not about gimmickry, (even though fresh carrots are ground on the table, and the cheese course is served in a picnic basket) but about teasing and revealing as the 16-course-meal progress, be it the outstandingly creative vegetarian courses, Crispy Crackling Duck and even a flirtation with molecular gastronomy. There are card tricks at the table, but the real magic is in the food, in the fun and fascinating meal which Chef Daniel Humm and Will Guidara deliver and ace in the grandiose, large room.     11 Madison Avenue (24th Street) Per Se I tripped out on the vegetables tasting menu at legendary chef owner Thomas Keller’s Napa Valley ‘The French Laundry’. In NYCs plush but unshowy dining space, there is constant evolution and precise execution, artistic plating, potatoes, cilantro, avocado and more are so flavourful, that they seemed to have been cultivated in a more verdant universe. Foie gras with just that perfect touch of chocolate and a symphony of salts, and what seems like endless gems of sweet wizardry. A choice of five, seven and nine courses in this opulent room with a view of the park.     (10 Columbus Circle) Also our favorites are: Le Bernardin (155 West, 51 Street) This seafood “near perfect” restaurant continues to dominate the fickle, trend conscious arena of New York. Chef Eric Ripert’s three types of seafood dishes (almost raw, barely touched and lightly cooked) thrill. Ate at the perfection itself Daniel Boulud’s Daniel (60 E, 65th St) on our last trip. Oustanding French grounded creations.     At Le Atelier du Robuchon (57th St, 57 St) — Loved the burger been endowed with pedigree (foie gras et al), ‘pommes purees’ (mashed potato) with its near cult status. JAI HO Junoon Michelin starred Junoon (means passion in hindi) serves up an authentic, yet elegantly modern take on Indian cuisine in a handsome, high-ceilinged, packed and noisy restaurant. Here, the dynamic New York restaurateur Rajesh Bhardwaj, Founder and CEO of Junoon, and a brilliant chef himself, is behind the success of hot, sexy chef Vikas Khanna.     Handi, Sigri, Pathar, Tawa and Tandoor conjure up spicy, robust dishes and flirt with plated modern versions too (Spiced Paneer Gnocchi with medley of Spinach Trio). Tonight, I dine with global culinary icons, Emmy and James Beard Award winning producer and director of culinary shows Geoffrey Drummond (producer of the legendary shows of Julia Child and other culinary legends), currently producing and directing Three Michelin starred chef Eric Ripert’s shows. His wife, painter and art professor Barbara Thomas, spent her childhood in India, loves to cook and invent dishes alongside her husband. New York’s ‘first couple of food’ Michael Whiteman, (world’s most eminent food, restaurant and international hotel consultant, who created the Rainbow Room and Windows on the World) along with award-winning chef, cookbook author and journalist Rozanne Gold are here. They loved Junoon and we’ll be back. 27 W, 24th St Astor Court... St Regis It comes as a super surprise that the century old NYC landmark and legendary hotel St Regis, known for its unique luxury dimension, is headed up by the brilliant Indian Executive Chef Baasim Zafar. He is all set to sparkle the once favourite hotel of Marlene Dietrich, Salvador Dali, and famed for the creation of the Bloody Mary cocktail since 1934 (still served here). Equally perfected are the timeless classics, the French Onion Soup, the King Cole Burger and more. 55th and 5th Avenue OUR CASUAL FLAVOURITES Crazily addictive is David Chang’s Momofuku Ssam bar (East Village), it’s glossy, raucous and glamorous. You can’t go back without eating the world’s best fatty Pork-Belly Steamed Bun with hoisin sauce.     Tertulia (359 Sixth Ave between Washington Pl and W 4th St) is another must visit. Chef Seamus Mullen’s charming, snug, Spanish, rustic, nostalgic dining room, with it’s arched wine-cellar ceiling, scuffed white brick walls, careful cooking and top-notch ingredients.     For innovative, inspired supercharged Dim sum conjured (no other word) by Master Chef Joe Ng and Chinese food expert Ed Schoenfeld, go to Red Farm (207 Second Ave, East Village). Pac Man Dumplings; Yuzu Wasabi Shrimp and more.     Quintessentially NYC is this large, buzzing Parisian bistro. Balthazar (80 4pring st) the eternal scene-spot for two decades serving dependable, generous and precise French fare.     I’m unable to fit in all the restaurants, should you need more info please email rashmiudaysingh2013@gmail.com, Twitter @rashmiudaysingh.
Sample a Tuscan feast     While Mumbai is no stranger to typical Italian cuisine, the distinct cuisine of the region of Tuscany is not as well known. This month, JW Marriott Mumbai invites Italian food gourmets to savour and relish this unique and original cuisine from the region of Florence. Dishing out these famous Tuscan delicacies will be Chef Davide Cananzi from this delightful town in Italy. Beginning with this food festival, he will take the helm of fine-dining Italian restaurant, Mezzo Mezzo at the Marriott, which will serve authentic Tuscan cuisine along with exotic wines. Unique cold appetisers like Prosciutto di Parma e rucola con fichi marinati al Porto (Parma ham with rocket salad and port wine marinated figs), Crostini alla Toscana (Tuscany style chicken liver pate crostini) and hot appetisers like Calamari fritti serviti con mayonnaise al pesto (Fresh fried squid with pesto mayonnaise) and other dishes will set the tone for the rest of the meal.     Original and rustic dishes from the main course include Fusilli con bresaola     e cipolla alla crema     (Fusilli pasta with     Italian dry-salted meat and onions, served with creamy sauce), Pappardelle fresche con salsa alla Anitra (Home-made large noodles with olives, basil and slow cooked duck ragout), Fagottodime-lanzane con fondutaditaleggioe olio al tartufo (Eggplant parcel with Taleggio cheese fondue and truffle oil) and more.     For the non-vegetarians, the Tuscan Food Festival offers La Griglia (The Meat Grill) that will boast of Rosticciana (Grilled Pork Ribs), Agnello scottadito (Grilled New Zealand Lamb Chops) and Bistecca di manzo (Rib Eye Steak) to name a few, which will be served with mashed or Rosemary-roasted potato and grilled vegetables. Sea-food lovers can feast on La Griglia (The Fish Grill), which will include Aragosta alla griglia (Grilled Lobster), Branzino (Grilled Sea Bass Steak), Grilled Calamari and Grilled Salmon.     Desserts include Tramisu Classico, which is a traditional Italian mascarpone with cheese and coffee dessert, Crostatina di pere e mandorle tiepide con gelato all’ amarena e salsa al cioccolato (Warm pear and almond tart with cherry ice cream and chocolate sauce) and a variety of gelatos. Where: Mezzo Mezzo When: Till June 1 Time: 7:30 pm onwards Pricing: A la Carte service Call: 91 22 66933344
Creating better storage facilities The agricultural sector of India is a major contributor to its economic growth. But, storage remains a major hindrance and hence, the need for organised warehousing units is the need of the hour VANDANA SINGH     According to a report, the total warehousing space available in India is huge but a very small fraction of it is in the organised sector, resulting in massive wastage of grains, fruits and vegetables. An estimated 20-40 per cent of these products are wasted out of total harvested.     In a country where a major chunk of the population goes without food while millions of tons of grains rot in the fields because of inadequate storage facilities, the magnanimity of the crisis can be understood. Edibles generally have a low shelf life while vegetables are all the more vulnerable. Therefore, proper storage of products or goods becomes important and critical. Every year, one can notice a steep hike in prices of onions and tomatoes right after monsoons. The reason is lack of adequate storage space. At the same time, time gap between production and consumption is very important because of the highly competitive market. Here, warehousing plays a crucial role in maintaining the demand-supply gap as the demand for particular products is low in one particular season and increases all of a sudden with sudden changes in climatic conditions. In the last decade, as per recent data, more than 1,300,000 tonnes of food grain got rotted away in storage because of lack of modern warehouses. Inefficient infrastructure and high distribution costs are detrimental factors.     As per Mukul Gupta, chief financial officer, Om Logistics, "It is imperative for all the logistics companies to utilise their resources in the best possible manner. Warehouses need to be equipped with modern tools and machinery, which can enable the handling of products in the best possible way, without wasting space. Besides, the workers needs to be trained at regular intervals and should be exposed to better ways of handling the storage facilities. The crux is to provide the best services at reasonable cost to the 'value for money' conscious customers."
Retail prices of vegetables at two-yr high, scald city kitchens Retailers Blame Rain For ‘Damages’ Bella Jaisinghani TNN     Mumbaikars have to pay high prices for food irrespective of a drought, as in 2012, or a plentiful harvest like this year. The common man is being forced to drop basic vegetables from the menu as money that would ordinarily buy a kilo of vegetables, can barely bring half or a quarter of the amount this season.     In a clear sign of profiteering, retailers have multiplied rates four times over wholesale prices whereas they should be just Rs 3-4 more per kg, inclusive of transportation, loading charges and spoilage.     Prices of vegetables are now at a twoyear high. Cauliflower, cluster beans (gavar), lady finger and capsicum cost Rs 80 per kg, over the normal average of Rs 40. “Even the common masala that includes coriander, green chillies and ginger which vendors threw in free, or sold for Rs 5, now costs as much as the main course. One can’t even make ginger tea in the monsoon,” says Avinash Patil, deputy director at Vashi’s APMC. Ginger now costs Rs 200 per kg over the average of Rs 50-60 per kg.     Tomato, onion and potato, the three essential ingredients of an Indian meal, ordinarily sell for Rs 12-15 per kg. But in a year, their prices have nearly doubled with Rs 20-25 now the new average. However, since May, tomato has reached an absurd high of Rs 48-60 per kg. The humble brinjal, usually at Rs 30, is now at Rs 60. A thin bundle of coriander or methi costs Rs 10, double the usual rate of Rs 5, while meagre clusters of spinach are selling for Rs 10-12.     Retailers blame the astronomical hike on “damaged crops” and spoilage during the monsoon. However, experts say the only loss occurs in cauliflower since farmers sell the vegetable complete with stalks and leaves, which are then removed. There is a marginal loss in cabbage as a layer or two of leaves must be removed and 5-10% in tomato. There is no loss in ginger, lady finger, brinjal, gavar, green peas or green chillies, yet their prices remain high.     “Four main suppliers of ginger say wholesale rates will reduce steadily by July-August after the new crop is harvested in Karnataka. Tomato and green chillies are expected to fall in 15-20 days in APMC but I cannot vouch for retail markets,” Patil says.     Stockbroker Sheel Jain from Borivli, who provides for a family of six, says the government must step in and curb hoarding and random profiteering by retail traders. “We are still paying Rs 100 for moong dal despite record crops year after year. Even if we buy cheaper items like cabbage or gourd, can we cook without coriander, tomato or edible oil whose prices rise every month? The agriculture and food ministries have given sellers freedom to manipulate profits and left the common man to suffer,” says Jain.     Sanjay Pansare, APMC director, says regulating the neighbourhood greengrocer is near impossible. “How can the government police roadside businesses involving thousands of vendors? If a customer does complain to the authorities, the vendor will deny overcharging buyers,” he says.
Retailers hike veggie prices 4 times their wholesale value Bella Jaisinghani TNN Mumbai: Retailers have hiked vegetable prices to four times their wholesale value, despite a good harvest, blaming ‘damaged crops’ and spoilage due to the monsoon. However, dipping fish and fruit prices have given Mumbaikars a bit of a breather.     Vegetable prices in the city are at a two-year high despite a good monsoon, with essentials like tomato, onion and potato, which ordinarily sell for Rs 12-15 per kg, now hovering between Rs 48 and Rs 60 per kg. Experts say the difference between wholesale and retail prices should not be more than R 3-4 per kilo.     However, prices of most fish have eased, giving some Mumbaikars a cheaper option. Fruits like mangoes, pomegranate and pear too are cheaper, with the Alphonso now between Rs 150 and Rs 350 per dozen. P 2 BITING RATES • Vegetable prices in city are at a 2-year high • Essentials like tomato, onion, potato cost 48-60 per kg • Retailers blame rains for spoilage • Experts say wholesale and retail price difference must not be more than 3-4 per kg • Fish, fruit prices are cheaper
Air passengers can cut flying cost by carrying their own meals Packed Meals Must Comply With Security Regulations TIMES NEWS NETWORK Mumbai: At a time when airlines are looking to put a price tag on nearly every service and amenity, food is an item where flyers can cut cost. Few air passengers know that they can carry their own food on flights, be it a home-packed meal or one bought from a restaurant at a cost lower than that of tasteless in-flight meals.     A number of food items can be carried onboard flights, particularly on the domestic sector since the likelihood of food rotting on shorter journeys is lower. The freedom comes with caveats though. On grounds of security, packing in metal cutlery is a no-no. So is taking along soup, dal, jelly, salad dressing or any liquid or gel-like food item, except in small quantities.     A flight attendant with a lowcost carrier said: “Though the trend has not caught on in India, some frequent flyers, people travelling with children and those following food restrictions do bring their own meals.” She added that most passengers who do so “are sensible enough not to pack in pungent and smelly food such as fish, raw onions and garlic”.     Though not popular so far, the trend of flying with own food may take off now as air travel becomes dearer. Most Indian carriers are charging for comforts like seats with extra legroom after the Centre cleared airfare unbundling.     Sudhir Awasthi, an Indorebased businessman and a frequent flyer, said, “I do not know about the economy class but in business class on domestic flights I have had co-passengers who brought their own food.” Awasthi too prefers the practice over buying in-flight meals.     “On average I fly twice a week and it is mostly very early or late in the day. I prefer to get my own nutritious and light meal. I have never had a problem with security. Also, I do not like the upma, poha, idlis, pulao and parathas served on flights,” said Awasthi. When flying from Mumbai, he usually buys a meal either from a food counter at the airport or from a restaurant outside.     So what are the foods permitted on planes? Unlike American and British air security regulators, who have issued detailed lists of dos and don’ts, the Indian Bureau of Civil Aviation Security has not paid a lot of thought to the subject. But since liquids are not allowed on flights, an air passenger in India can safely avoid liquid or gel-like items.     In the West, the practice of flying with own food is so common that it has spawned a cottage industry. A few years ago, chef Gordon Ramsay opened a restaurant outlet at London’s Heathrow, which offered a “picnic to take on board”, a three-course meal that came neatly packed in a carry-on box, complete with plastic cutlery and a heavy price tag. SERVICE ECONOMY AFTER THE UNION MINISTRY OF CIVIL AVIATION ALLOWED FARE UNBUNDLING, MOST AIRLINES IN INDIA HAVE BEGUN CHARGING FOR THE FOLLOWING SERVICES AND ITEMS: Seats with extra legroom Window and aisle seats Check-in luggage over 15 kg Musical instruments Sports equipment Food has to be bought on low-cost flights BITE-SIZED PORTIONS UNITED STATES The US Transport Security Administration allows flyers to carry liquids, aerosols and gels below 100ml on flights. Pies and cakes are permitted too, albeit after additional screening. “Each traveller is allowed one bag to limit the volume of liquids, aerosols and gels. Consolidating products into one bag and X-raying them separately from the carry-on bag enables security officers to quickly clear all items,” states the security administration UNITED KINGDOM Heathrow Airport permits air passengers to take “most solid foods, including wedding cake, in hand luggage”. Foods in sauces or dishes containing a lot of liquid have to be carried in containers of 100ml or less and placed in a single transparent, resealable plastic bag of a capacity no greater than 1 litre. The same rule applies to yoghurts and curds, though not to those bought in airport shops after security control
EXCEPTION HERE
Here is why vegetable prices are killing you Subodh Varma TIMES INSIGHT GROUP     Tomato prices have gone through the roof. This essential part of food in most households is selling at over Rs60 per kilogram,in some placeseven up to Rs 80. In February this year, onion prices had similarly spiked for a few weeks, forcing families to shell out doubletriple prices. So, what’s going on? Is it a demand-supply problem, as claimed by traders and administrators?Or isitsheer profiteering, as the aam admi believes?     Actually, it is both—profiteering riding on the back of supply dips. This is happening because supply is generally not keeping up with growing demand. The slightest fumble in supply is an opportunity for traders—both wholesalers and retailers—to mark up the prices arbitrarily for a few weeks of bonanza.     This means that there is a growing shortage as population is increasing every year and so is demand. When you have this kind of finely balanced demand-supply equation, any disturbance, whether natural or manmade, gives the cue for prices to be hiked. This is followed by much hand-wringing by the government, and then the prices will settle down—but at a slightly higher level.     So, unless supplies grow to match the growing population, be prepared for these periodic hikes in vegetables prices. GOING RED Prices have skyrocketed due to demand-supply problem, profiteering Slightest fumble in supply an opportunity for traders to mark up prices Growing shortage due to rising population every year With demand-supply mismatch, any disturbance gives cue for hike in prices Traders don’t miss chance to hike prices S omebody is getting a windfall, and he is unlikely to slip up an opportunity. Take the case of tomato. The wholesale rate is between Rs 22 and Rs 24 a kg—that is, the price paid by wholesale traders in Mumbai to farmers or their contractors. The real rub comes after this when the big wholesale agent turns around and starts selling his stock to middlemen and retailers.     Prices double by the time they reach the aam admi. Thus, the wholesale price of Rs 22-24 per kg translates into Rs 48-60 per kg by the time tomatoes are carted down from Vashi’s APMC to Andheri or Borivli.     Reshma Merchant, who stays opposite Andheri Sports Complex, purchased the vegetable for Rs 60, and was dreading a further increase as Ramzan arrives next week. “This is one staple ingredient of all vegetarian and non-vegetarian dishes. You just cannot cook a meal without tomato,” she said. A similar story can be told about some of the other vegetables—those that are linked to an all-India supply chain, and are essentials. These include potatoes, and onions, and most fruits.     (With inputs from Bella Jaisinghani)
Veggie subsidy waits for CM’s inauguration Eye On Polls, Government Places Political Mileage Above The Common Man’s Needs TIMES NEWS NETWORK Mumbai: The Maharashtra government’s much-hyped scheme to provide vegetables at reduced rates will have to wait for now. Reason: Chief minister Prithviraj Chavan is on a tour of Karad and hence, cannot inaugurate it on Monday.     “The CM had announced the scheme personally and although he would like to inaugurate it on Monday, he is touring Karad and will return in the evening. The agriculture ministry is trying to schedule the opening soon,” said a spokesperson from the CM’s office.     The delay in the scheme’s launch, which may now coincide with the start of Ramzan, lays bare that the government’s intention is political mileage rather than a desire to help the common man.     On July 5, TOI had questioned if this intervention was just another election gimmick.     The delay comes even as special government stalls across Mumbai and Thane had stockpiled 10 tonnes of vegetables for distribution. Cooperative stores had also made space for vegetable consignments.     APMC director Sanjay Pansare, who is coordinating the food scheme, gave a similar timeline for different reasons. “Around 4,000 large crates required for distribution will arrive on Monday or Tuesday. The scheme will definitely begin by Wednesday,” he said.     Since the last three months, retail cartels have been charging customers four times the wholesale price for food items. To counter this, the government, last week, promised to open 100 temporary stalls to sell fresh farm produce from APMC at prices 30% lower than market rates. The first 10 centres were to start functioning on Monday.     In Maharashtra, the Lok Sabha and assembly elections usually take place within a few months of each other. With the next set of elections coming up 2013-end or early 2014, the state government seems to be trying to squeeze political mileage out of every little thing.     Recently, the inauguration of the Eastern Freeway was held up as the state government waited for some worthy from the Centre for its inauguration even as the city waddled through waterlogged roads.     On Sunday evening, Congress MLA Baba Siddiqui negotiated with APMC director Pansare to operate a similar scheme in his Bandra constituency.     Anil Gangar, chairman of Apna Bazar, which will host eight such stalls, said the one at Andheri may open informally. Initially APMC will despatch one tonne of items to each of the 10 centres. “This will include 500kg of mixed vegetables, 200kg potatoes and 200kg onions. We will gauge the requirement and then regulate the consignment in days to come,” Pansare said. Times View: Shocking insensitivity T his paper was the first to raise the question whether the state government’s plan to supply vegetables at discounted prices was just another political gimmick. And we have been proved right by the deferment of the scheme, ostensibly because the chief minister cannot be in the city to personally inaugurate it on Monday. Coming at a time when people have to buy a quarter kg of vegetables for money that used to fetch 1kg or more, this blatant attempt to tailor relief to suit the ruling party’s political agenda is even more shocking. It lays bare the sheer insensitivity and opportunism of a government whose leader comes across as a mere politician more than willing to sacrifice basic governance at the altar of populism.
Andheri retailers cut rates as veggies subsidy scheme set for roll-out Starting today, vegetables will be sold at reduced rates at 11 outlets across city Bella Jaisinghani & Somit Sen TNN Mumbai: On a day the state government decided not to wait for the chief minister to inaugurate its veggies-at-reduced-rates scheme, retailers outside one of the outlets where the subsidised vegetables are to be sold slashed prices by 50 per cent, providing proof that the rates had been artificially inflated.     After TOI reported on Monday how the scheme was waiting for CM Prithviraj Chavan to make time for a formal ribbon-cutting ceremony, the state decided to implement it from Tuesday. The state has added one more centre – a consumer store inside the Mantralaya compound – to the list of co-operative outlets where the veggies will be sold.     Reacting to the government’s move, by Monday afternoon, greengrocers outside the proposed subsidy centre at Andheri’s Apna Bazar had halved rates to Rs 40-50 per kg and were pleading with customers to ignore the state outlet and buy from them instead. When this reporter approached them as a buyer, they not only decreased rates by the minute but offered 1 kg of lady finger, cluster beans (gavar), cauliflower, french beans and ridge gourd (karela) for Rs 40 per kg, after first quoting Rs 60.     “We are not scared of competition from the government. But compare prices at that centre and at my stall, and you will find I offer a better deal. More produce is flooding the market now that the rain has reduced, so naturally rates have begun to fall,” one of the sellers said. The rates stood at Rs 80 per kg last week. Prices at this spot had fallen to Rs 60 within a day of the government’s announcement. However, elsewhere in the city, where vendors are not in competition with the subsidised stalls, veggies continued to cost Rs 80 per kg.     Reader K A Viswanathan called from Matunga market and reported a vast difference in prices at Sahakari Bhandar, a co-operative store, near Aurora theatre and the retail market outside Matunga railway station on the Central Railway.     Near the station, tomato was selling at Rs 60 per kg, potato Rs 25, and onion Rs 30; even bitter gourd (karela) was priced at Rs 60. However, the co-operative store sold potato at Rs 19.50 per kg, onion at Rs 23 and cauliflower at Rs 39. Of course, the quality differed owing to poor storage and spoilage. “There are nearly 100 vegetable vendors near the railway station, and because the produce there is fresh, train commuters get off at Matunga station and buy vegetables,” Viswanathan said. At Borivli east, all vegetables cost a notch higher than elsewhere. Sanjay Pansare, director of the APMC wholesale market, said each of the 11 subsidy centres would initially receive one tonne (1,000 kg) of supplies. “Of this, 500 kg will be mixed vegetables, 200 kg potato and 200 kg onion,” he said. Apna Bazar’s most popular outlet, in Andheri, barely requisitions half that quantity every day. “We are receiving so many inquiries about this sale that we are hoping to empty out stocks. In a day or two, supply will be tailored to suit demand at each centre,” said Anil Gangar, chairman of Apna Bazar.     Apna Bazar in Mulund will have special decoration, with government banners, lighting and special racks for stocking vegetables on sale. Uday Gandhi, assistant manager, said, “We have earmarked an open area near the entrance. We will have a huge rate card on display, lights, racks to store products, electronic weighing machines, and our men will regulate crowds.”
‘RATES ARE ALMOST HALF THAT OF THE MARKET AND THE QUALITY IS GOOD, BUT A PERMANENT WAY TO CONTROL PRICES MUST BE FOUND’ Most of the seven centres were sold out by 7pm, except for some onions and potatoes. We are extremely satisfied with the results of this experiment. Even in 2009 when vegetable prices had risen, we provided subsidised stock at our outlets. Trucks brought good quality vegetables to seven centres today which cost about 30% lower than the market price Anil Gangar | CHAIRMAN, APNA BAZAR COOPERATIVE To combat the high retail pricing of vegetables, we are directly sending the same at cheaper wholesale rates to 11 outlets so that people can afford them Avinash Patil | APMC DEPUTY SECRETARY The vegetables are of good quality, at 35% of the market price. In Mulund, everything was sold out before 8pm. At Andheri, all vegetables were sold out within two hours Nandini Gavde | DIRECTOR, CHAIN OF APNA BAZAAR OUTLETS Regular customers have been telling us that they will get vegetables at lower rates at Apna Bazar. What could we do? We had to reduce prices too. Since Tuesday morning, all vegetables have been selling Rs 5-6 cheaper per kg than Monday. But we need to pay a tax at the Vashi market, from where we get our supply. For every Rs 100, there is a tax of Rs 20. So we can’t afford to sell at very low prices Anjana Shevale | VEGETABLE VENDOR, NAIGAON The vegetables I bought for Rs 480 lasted just three days. How can you run a kitchen if tomatoes cost Rs 60 and lady’s finger Rs 70? I stopped using ginger as it is unaffordable. The stall at Apna Bazar should help as today I bought veggies for Rs 116, which should last me for four days     Nimmy Mathew | MICROBIOLOGIST
Course Correction ‘Extend fair prices, subsidized stores to other neighbourhoods’ Vegetable Rates Dip In Vicinity Of Co-operatives, Consumers In Other Areas Demand Subsidy Stores Team TOI     Retail prices of vegetables have started to dip in pockets of the city with government-subsidised food outlets, but remain outrageously high in neighbourhoods not within striking distance of these centres.     In fact, most of the fall in prices has been only in the immediate vicinity of the stores selling subsidized vegetables. The huge disparity in retail prices at the subsidized stores and markets outside has outraged many consumers, who want fair-price shops in their neighbourhoods. Residents in most of south Mumbai, particularly Breach Candy and suburbs like Bandra, Lokhandwala Complex, Goregaon and even Jogeshwari, said retail rates in their areas have doubled in less than a month. They said prices in these areas were anyway higher than the rest of the city, as they were perceived as ‘prime locations’.     Bandra interestingly does not have any food mall or fair price shop. Given that most wealthy residents scarcely ask rates before buying, vendors have begun to overcharge to suit their whim. Shalmali Godse, who lives in Bandra Reclamation, says, “The onion economy brought a government to tears but ridiculous food prices seem to be here to stay ever since. Just the other day I paid Rs 50 for a dozen ‘elaichi kela’. A quarter kg of tomatoes costs Rs 25 in my neighbourhood and onions are priced at Rs 35/kg. Yet I do not hear a murmur of protest. The only way out for people especially in areas like Bandra-Khar, which lack fair-price supermarkets, is to perhaps adopt size-zero diets.” Shalmali said she couldn’t remember when 250gm each of four vegetables added up to Rs 310, as it did last week.     Residents of Gokuldham in Goregaon east said they had to pay absurd rates for basic essentials. “Tomato costs Rs 80 per kg and lady finger Rs 120. I bought a single capsicum for Rs 15. My husband is so frustrated with this constant price rise he urges me not to bargain and merely pay up what the vendor asks,” said Amisha Gupte.     Surprisingly in Lokhandwala, Andheri, a supermarket which stocks second- or thirdgrade quality products, is packed with highprofile residents willing to pay Rs 80-100 for basic vegetables. The shop floor is filled with slush, but that does not seem to matter either. “We do have an Apna Bazar outlet around 3km away and the Four Bungalows market is robust and reasonable, but it is much easier to just call in stuff on the phone,” said Mithilesh Agrahari, an aspiring television actor. Roadside vendors, who arrive in tempos every morning and squat on street corners, charge Rs 80-100 per kg for all basic vegetables.     Greengrocers near the National Park in Borivli charge Rs 5 extra on onions and potatoes and up to Rs 20 more per kg on all vegetables, though rates have started to climb down since the subsidy was announced.     “We definitely hope that when the list of outlets expands, our locality figures in it,” said Swati Desai. Times View: Crack down on profiteering     The government move, to get all the fair-price outlets operational without delay, is welcome. But, for every one of these outlets, there are a hundred more markets where Mumbaikars continue paying through their nose. This is profiteering, which is very different from making an honest profit. The fair-price outlets will provide some succour but the government, if it really has citizens’ welfare in mind, should crack down on retailers.
Include vegetables in ‘essential commodities’ Madhavi Rajadhyaksha | TNN Mumbai: Food rights groups say the unprecedented rise of vegetable prices in retail markets in recent weeks underlines what they have been saying all along, that vegetables, particularly those that form the staple Indian diet, should be included in the list of essential commodities.     Essential commodities are items covered by food pricing legislations such as the Essential Commodities Act, 1955 and Prevention of Black Marketing Act, 1980 (see box). The laws empower the government to control production, distribution and pricing of select items and to crack down on unethical trade practices. Economists say vegetables like onion were considered essential commodities till 1999, only to be deleted from the list due to the emphasis on market liberalization.     TOI has reported how vegetables are being sold at prices up to four times their wholesale value, in recent weeks. “This is precisely why the Right to Food campaign has been saying that essential vegetables as well as wheat should be brought under the Essential Commodities Act. Currently, there is no regulatory body for vegetables and fruits and retailers exploit that,” says economist Vibhuti Patel. Despite a bumper crop, neither farmers nor consumers benefit, she explains, saying middlemen get away with the profits. Kerala and Punjab have in the past weighed the option of including vegetables as essential items.     Ulka Mahajan of the Anna Adhikar Abhiyan believes vegetables can be brought under the ambit of essential commodities if the state was to pass a government order. “We also need more mechanisms to liaise farmers directly with consumers to break the monopoly of retailers and middlemen,” she says.     Agricultural economist Devinder Sharma too criticizes the government’s firefighting approach. “There is no supply constraint this time. We have similar spells of rising prices in the past four to five years. Every time this happens, the government steps in with short-term measures but we need to tame the wholesale and retail trade,” he says. “Laws need to be effectively implemented. People feel the market will correct itself, it never will.” PUNISH BLACK MARKETING FOOD PRICING LEGISLATIONS | The Essential Commodities Act 1955 and Prevention of Black Marketing and Maintenance of Supplies of Essential Commodities Act, 1980 PROVISIONS | They regulate production, distribution, pricing of essential commodities, determine supplies & ensure their availability at fair prices. They seek to prevent unethical trade practices like hoarding IMPLEMENTATION | Their administration lies with the state government though the Centre can modify the list of essential items too PUNITIVE MEASURES | Any person obstructing essential supplies could be detained up to six months under the Black Marketing Act; Violating the Essential Commodities Act can bring 7 years in jail WHAT IS AN ESSENTIAL COMMODITY? The central government in 2007 revised the list of essential commodities. It now includes: Drugs Fertilizers, (organic, inorganic or mixed) Foodstuffs including edible oilseeds and oil Hank yarn made wholly from cotton Petroleum & petroleum products Raw jute and Jute Textiles     Seeds of food crops and seeds of fruits and vegetables, seeds of cattle fodder, jute seeds, cotton seeds DEMAND FOR INCLUSION | Food rights groups believe all vegetables should be brought under Essential Commodities particularly potatoes, onions & tomatoes Vasai farmers check overpricing, sell     Vegetable growers in Vasai have stopping selling bulk produce to wholesalers and are selling smaller quantities to locals, till prices are brought under control. Villagers say wholesalers buy vegetables from Vasai’s rural markets and the same return to its urban areas at exorbitant prices. “Tomatoes sell for Rs 60 a kilo. Even if locals spend on an auto and visit rural markets, they can get cheaper vegetables,” said Sugandha Patil, a vegetable vendor at the Holi market in Vasai. “There are lot of vegetables in the market. Wholesalers are buying in bulk and hoarding it to get better rates,” said Vasai farmer Pravin Raut. He said towards the station area, vegetables sell at exorbitant prices. While the government is offering subsidized vegetables through Apna Bazar centres in Mumbai, no such scheme has been implemented in Thane rural areas. —Sandhya Nair | tnn
Inflation marginally up at 4.86% TIMES NEWS NETWORK New Delhi: Inflation marginally accelerated in June to a five-month high of 4.86% on the back of stubborn food prices posing a fresh challenge for the central bank and the government struggling with grim macroeconomic data.     Data released by the commerce ministry on Monday showed the annual rate of inflation, based on monthly WPI (wholesale price index), stood at 4.86% in June compared to 4.70% for the previous month and 7.58% during the corresponding month of the previous year.     Moderating wholesale price inflation had come as a huge relief for the government grappling with stubborn price pressures ahead of key state elections. The sudden rise in inflation comes against the backdrop of falling exports, a wobbly currency and sliding industrial output growth. High food prices posed a fresh worry as vegetable prices rose an annual 9.74% in June after displaying some signs of easing in the previous months. Vegetable prices shot an annual 16.47% in June, while onion prices rose 114% during the month and emerged as a fresh pressure point.     Economists said they expect RBI to hold rates when it reviews monetary policy later this month. “June WPI inflation moderately increased but the details in no way provided any significant comfort for inflation dynamics in India. Food inflation (as also seen in the CPI inflation) re-emerged as a key concern even as manufactured products prices were contained due to demand erosion,” Indranil Pan, chief economist at Kotak Mahindra Bank, said. “However,implications of the recent rupee depreciation are likely to take effect over the core WPI inflation over the next few months, implying that the comfort out of the lower demand scenario could erode. We see the RBI maintaining status quo at the July 30 meeting with the likelihood of an extended pause through fiscal year 2014 having risen significantly,” Pan said.     Experts said they expect inflation to return to 6-7% range due to a combination of factors including a weak rupee, which is expected to raise the price of imported inputs. “Demand pressures will remain weak, but we could see some lift in core inflation. With a weak currency, imported costs of production go up and eventually businesses might have to pass them on to the consumers,” rating agency Crisil said in a note.
Minor dip in retail prices, marginal hike in govt rates Bella Jaisinghani | TNN Mumbai: In a slight reversal, Monday witnessed a marginal drop in prices of certain vegetables in the retail market even as rates of government-subsidized producem sold at fair-price shopsm were increased on a few items.     Cauliflower, tomato and green peas dipped by Rs 5-10 per kg in areas like Bandra. On the other hand, government fair price shops raised tomato prices from Rs 40 to Rs 42, cluster beans from Rs 44 to Rs 46 and French beans from Rs 34 to Rs 44.     Cauliflower went up from Rs 28 per kg to Rs 32 while another staple, cabbage rose from Rs 19 to Rs 26 per kg. Ginger, which was not on sale so far, came in at Rs 120 per kg versus the market rate of Rs 180.     The Andheri Apna Bazar received 700 kg of produce on Monday morning and another 750 kg in the evening, prompting queues to wind up to the petrol pump nearby. At Sardar Nagar-I in Sion, the Apna Bazar manager Ravindra Raut reported similar enthusiasm. “Vendors in the surrounding neighbourhood have begun to defl ate rates now. In fact the government should widely publicise the daily wholesale rates at APMC, Vashi, so that people can assess how much they are being overcharged in their neighbourhoods. Once they confront vegetable sellers with the figures, there will be some control on the profi teering,” Raut said.     However, retail vendors in Andheri held firm to the highs of Rs 60-80 per kg for capsicum, lady fi nger and cluster beans (gavar) although a perceptible drop was noticed in rates of green peas and caulifl ower.     Most vegetables remained expensive in Goregaon, Borivli, Kandivli and Bandra. However, caulifl ower fell to Rs 35 per kg in Pali Market, Bandra, with retailers saying that supply had improved owing to a dry spell. Tomato was selling for Rs 40 per kg, down half from last week’s high of Rs 70-80.     Meanwhile onion prices rose by Rs 3, from Rs 24 to Rs 27 per kg, on the back of slow arrivals from Lasalgaon, Nashik.
Cheap vegetables at 21 new outlets from today Bella Jaisinghani TNN     In the largest expansion of the vegetable distribution scheme, the agriculture ministry will inaugurate 21 new centres on Wednesday. Officials had said on Monday that the outlets were to be opened this week, but had not specified the day. The franchises are of the Sahakari Bhandar cooperative chain and are spread from Colaba to Virar along the western line. A few stores are located in the central suburbs as well.     Sahakari Bhandar chairman Sanjay Shete said the stalls would likely be operational by evening as supply and transportation logistics were being worked out. An agriculture ministry official said, “Officials have fanned out across proposed sites in Mumbai, Thane and Navi Mumbai. They are checking the accessibility of each location, the space that will be reserved for the scheme, and given that we are in the midst of monsoon, they are making sure that the stalls are covered or situated indoors. Several associations and organizations have approached us. We are ascertaining the credibility and track record of each.”     Agriculture minister Radhakrishna Vikhe Patil is scheduled to meet members of the Maharashtra Chamber of Housing Industry (MCHI) on Wednesday evening. MCHI chairman Vimal Shah said, “Our developers have offered to allocate space within housing colonies.” Minister, why are you raising prices? F or the second time in a week, government stalls hiked vegetable rates by a few rupees as if to bridge the gap with retail markets. The price of a kilo of onion rose from Rs 25 to Rs 28, lady finger and bitter gourd Rs 40 to Rs 44, tomato Rs 42 to Rs 44, cauliflower Rs 32 to Rs 34, cluster beans Rs 46 to Rs 48 and ginger Rs 120 to Rs 140. An APMC source said, “Since this is our first experience with retail, we had not taken into account actual costs of transportation and wastage.” A government spokesperson said the daily rate chart fluctuated as per the demand and supply situation. Consumers did not find the reasons convincing . TNN PVT BODIES OFFER SPACE Sahakari Bhandar centres to be operational from Wed COLABA     Opp Regal Cinema 2202 2248, 2202 2399, 2285 0770     21, Colaba Chambers, Shahid Bhagat Singh Road 2215 4552 CHURCHGATE     The Shop, Gate No 12, Cricket Club of India, Marine Drive 2202 4735, 6659 4370 BREACH CANDY     63, Bhulabhai Desai Road, Opp Breach Candy Hospital 2364 8435, 2367 6721, 2368 8704 JUHU     New Bombay Shopping Centre, Vaikunthlal Mehta Marg, JVPD, Vile Parle 2614 5550, 2618 8405 MAZGAON     Chetak Apartment, 19, Love Lane 2379 1700, 2371 7292/93 MATUNGA     Matunga Gujarati Club Bldg, N M Parekh Marg, Behind Arora Cinema 2409 6975, 2403 2181 VILE PARLE (EAST)     Shyamkamal Bldg, Agarwal Market, Behind Dinanath Mangeshkar Hall 2617 5958, 2618 7678 BANDRA     Gr floor, Ramdas Market Municipal Building, Near Hotel Residency near Bandra station 2642 4732 CHEMBUR     Diamond Hotel Building, Central Avenue Road, Near Ambedkar Garden 2528 9423, 2528 1563 CHEMBUR     3R Society of Reconstructive Surgery, Rehabilitation & Recovery Centre Compound, R C Marg 2527 2777 ANUSHAKTI NAGAR     Behind Dilwara Bldg, Anushakti Nagar Complex 2558 9574 GOREGAON     Municipal Market Building, Opp Dindoshi Bus Depot 2842 9950 ANDHERI     26, Shyam Kunj, Shree Rajasthan Society, Near Jain Temple, J B Nagar 2830 3206/07 WORLI     Worli Sea Face Consumer Coop Soc, Sea Face (south end), Municipal Compound 2493 0589, 2495 3212 BORIVLI     Saakar Consumer Coop Soc, 118/124, LIC Shopping Centre, Jeevan Bima Nagar, Behind post office 2893 1389, 2891 5616 MALAD     Sarnath, Upper Govind Nagar, Near Poddar School, Behind Saibaba Mandir 2871 2642, 2871 2685 NALASOPARA     Shree Swastik Homeland, Fun Fiesta Multiplex, Shreeprastha Complex 0250-240 0031/71 MIRA ROAD     Gr floor, Trivedi Palace, Church Road, Near Sheetal Nagar 2811 4880-85 VIRAR     Samrat Complex, Shop No 1, Runwal Vihar, Near Premium Park, Agashi Road, Bolinj 0250-251 0207-09 DADAR     Kashinath Dhuru Road, Junction of S K Bole Road, Agar Bazar 2421 4601/02/08
One week of veggie scheme: Govt rates rise as retail prices drop ‘Difference In Prices Will Narrow To Just 10%’ Bella Jaisinghani TNN Mumbai: It is a week since the government’s vegetable supply scheme opened to warm response from consumers. However, even as more outlets are being added, the rates have risen steadily since the inaugural day of July 9. This, even as retail rates have fallen marginally.     Although the agriculture ministry’s vision was to stem rates at 30% below market price, this standard may not apply. APMC officials say that eventually, there will merely be a 10% difference between the two rates. It remains to be seen whether people continue to find it viable to travel the distance to a government outlet and wait in queue to save but a few rupees.     The gap between retail rates and government outlets has narrowed considerably within a week. On Wednesday, unripe tomato sold for Rs 44 per kg at the centre while retailers charged Rs 50-60 for the robust red variety. Cabbage now costs Rs 26 as against Rs 19 on July 9 while cluster beans (gavar) have risen to Rs 52 from Rs 44. Of course, rates remain lower than neighbourhood stalls but there is a marked difference in quality as well. Official centres sell weak pods of green peas for Rs 48 while retailers stock healthy varieties for Rs 50-55. Fresh spinach, methi and coriander have become cheap in common bazaars as well.     A government official said, “The constant fluctuation in demand and supply makes us compute a daily price chart. Wholesale rates and arrivals change every day. Over the past few days arrivals have been slow and wholesale rates have risen steadily by a few rupees. We only include overhead costs of grading and transportation as the scheme is operated on a no profit-no loss basis.”     An APMC officer said prices were also revised due to the wholesalers’ “inexperience” in the retail segment. “We waste 25-30 kg of produce every day because housewives throw in that extra tomato into the weighing machine and select each lady finger. Moreover, extra hands must be employed and transportation costs factored in before we can determine the daily rate,” he said. ONION PRICES SPIRAL TO 33 A KG     The price of onion has risen to 24.50 per kg in the Lasalgaon market, causing retail rates to spiral to 32-33 in Mumbai. On Wednesday, the Maharashtra State Agriculture Marketing Board web site listed the wholesale price in Vashi at Rs 22-25. However, Ashok Walunj, director of the APMC onion-potato market, quoted 27-29. “Onion prices will remain high until the new crop arrives next month. However, people should not object to shortterm increase given that the farmer gains a better deal. Imagine what would happen if farmers decided to strike work and not sow seeds for an entire season,” he said.
Buy cheap fruits from Monday Prafulla Marpakwar TNN Mumbai: If an ambitious plan drafted by agriculture minister Radhakrishna Vikhe-Patil succeeds, then all low-cost vegetable outlets will also sell fruits at reasonable prices from July 22. “We held a meeting with the managements of cooperative societies and the owners of retail outlets. They have agreed to sell fruits along with vegetables from July 22. We have proposed to sell five to six varieties of fruits,’’ Patil said.     Patil said he also had a meeting with 32 retailers who were given direct marketing licences. “A large number of the retailers were not buying agricultural produce from the farmers. As a result, the purpose of granting them direct marketing licence was defeated,’’ Patil said. “A high-level panel headed by the agriculture commissioner has been set up to probe the complaints against direct market licencees. They have been asked to open 140 retail outlets across the city by July 22. We have instructed them to tell us about the location of their outlets and from where they plan to procure the produce.” Patil said the response to the low-cost outlets has been overwhelming. “We have been able to bring down the price of vegetables in the open market. We have adequate stock of vegetables and will continue to operate the outlets for a few months,’’ he said. On spiralling onion prices, Patil said, “There appears to be hoarding of onions by a section of leading traders. Sufficient quantity of onion is available. If the prices continue to soar, then we will take stern action against erring traders.”
Onion prices hit record high of 50 per kg Mumbai: The cost of onion spiralled to Rs 50 per kg across markets on Saturday. Prices rose by Rs 10 since Friday when the bulb was selling for Rs 40 on an average. Traders at the Vashi APMC market blamed last year’s drought for causing a shortage while vendors said this year’s “excess” rain had spoiled stocks.     Another staple of Indian cuisine, tomato, costs Rs 40 per kg, closing all avenues for middleclass homes. “Onions that cost Rs 40 on Friday shot up to Rs 50 on Saturday. I have been buying only 500g to last two days but one can’t reduce consumption beyond a certain degree,” said Goregaon housewife Shweta Shah.     Wholesalers in Goregaon municipal market were also taken by surprise. Arulsekhar Nadar of Nadar Enterprises said, “The onion variety that cost Rs 32 in the Vashi wholesale market on Friday began to sell for Rs 42 on Saturday. The one priced at Rs 36 was being sold for Rs 46. We charge customers Rs 7 per kg more than the wholesale rate to cover additional costs.”     Nadar said the poorest quality of onion was selling for Rs 35 per kg. “ Only hotels would use it in curries,” he said. Ashok Walunj, head of the onion-potato market at APMC, said, “Arrivals have dropped, so costs have risen.” The government’s fair price vegetable stalls were selling onions for Rs 44 per kg. —Bella Jaisinghani
Factory growth shrinks 2.2% in June Dips For Second Consecutive Month, Exports Grow Fastest In 2 Years TIMES NEWS NETWORK New Delhi: There was grim news on the industrial output front but exports, which rose at their fastest pace in almost two years, provided some relief. However, high stubborn retail inflation sustained the pressure as policymakers battle a sharp slowdown.     Dismal industrial output growth numbers raised apprehension that the first quarter economic growth may fall short of the 5% mark, piling more pressure on the government to reverse the trend. The Indian economy slowed to a decade low of 5% in 2012-13 and the sustained slowdown has raised fears that growth may falter in the current fiscal as well.     Data released by the Central Statistics Office (CSO) on Monday showed industrial output fell for the second consecutive month in June, declining by 2.2%. What made matters worse was the fact that industrial production had contracted 2% in June 2012 as well. Even the May 2013 data was revised downwards to a decline of 2.9% from the previous fall of 1.6%, highlighting the stress in the sector.     “The trend is very disturbing and it is a wake-up call. The slowdown is now well dispersed and if steps are not taken it will spread to services as well,” said D K Joshi, chief economist at rating agency Crisil.     Indian Inc said the factory data was a concern and stepped up calls for easing tight monetary policy to boost growth. “The IIP figures for June are indeed a matter of concern and clearly indicate that supply side bottlenecks and weak consumer demand are weighing down on industrial growth,” Naina Lal Kidwai, Ficci president, said. “The continuous decline in manufacturing will impact the employment scenario and manufacturing can be revived by stimulating demand, lowering the interest rates and expediting investment projects.” But there was some cheer for the government as exports staged a smart rebound in July, rising by 11.6% to $25.8 billion, while imports declined 6.2% to $38.1 billion. Gold and silver imports, slowed to $2.9 billion in July from $4.4 billion in the same period last year, and helped keep the trade deficit at the previous month’s level.     Commerce secretary S R Rao said the steps announced by the government to boost exports should help in the months ahead. “We do hope that these measures would help us in improving our export target performance in the coming months...continuing interest in Africa, Latin America, Asean and Far East regions should be helping us (in increasing exports),” Rao told reporters.     Indian exports have remained sluggish due to the slowdown in vital markets, while imports had surged led to a widening of the trade deficit and creating pressure on rupee. But the pressure on the prices front, particularly food inflation remained and highlighted the need to raise supplies. While retail inflation eased marginally in July, it still hovered near the double-digit mark at 9.64% compared to 9.87% for the previous month. The corresponding provisional inflation rates for rural and urban areas for July 2013 are 9.14% and 10.26%, while the final Inflation rates for rural and urban areas for June 2013 were 9.63% and 10.13% respectively.     “CPI (consumer price inflation) is a problem. There we have to increase supplies,” finance minister P Chidambaram told reporters, while unveiling measures to stem the rupee’s sharp slide.     On the industrial output front, the manufacturing sector continued to be in doldrums, posting a decline of 2.2% compared to a fall of 3.2% in the year earlier period. The mining sector, which has been hit by regulatory delays, fell 4.1% in June compared with a decline of 1.1% in June 2012, while growth in the electricity sector remained stagnant. The capital goods sector, which is a key gauge of industrial activity, fell 6.6% in June compared to a decline of 27.7% in the same month earlier year, while the consumer durables sector fell 10.5% in June 2013 compared with an expansion of 9.1% in June 2012. Govt may not ban onion export New Delhi:The government is unlikely to ban export of onions in the wake of soaring retail prices and expects the situation to ease over the next fortnight. “We expect the new crop to hit the markets in the 15 days or so and help cool down prices,” said a government officer, who is part of the group closely monitoring the price of the politically-sensitive kitchen ingredient.     The commerce department, which has traditionally opposed any export curbs, has submitted data that suggests that exports have not contributed to the price increase. While the numbers were unavailable, officials said exports have been low and tapering off in recent weeks as farmers are able to realize better value in the domestic market.     In parts of Delhi, onion prices soared to Rs 80 a kg. A spike in onio prices had cost the BJP the 1998 assembly polls in the capital. TNN
Onion prices shoot up to 60 per kg Bella Jaisinghani TNN Mumbai: Retail onion prices shot up to Rs 60 per kg on Monday, a jump of Rs 20 since Saturday. Central officials said the price rice is inexplicable as arrivals have doubled in the past two days, so prices should have dropped instead.     The price rise reflects the all-time high wholesale price of Rs 4,300 a quintal on Monday at the Lasalgaon wholesale market, Nashik. But a senior official at Lasalgaon APMC told TOIthat the prices are likely to stabilize soon with arrival of new stock.     “I spoke to officials at Lasalgaon, who said arrivals have doubled since last week. It is surprising that prices have risen two-fold when they should have halved,” said Virendra Singh, chairman, National Cooperative Consumers’ Federation of India. Singh suggested the Centre ban onion exports for a fortnight till the new crop arrives by August-end or early September. Considering subsidized onion stalls: Minister Mumbai: To control the sudden rise in onion prices, Virendra Singh, chairman, National Cooperative Consumers’ Federation of India has suggested a temporary stop on exports. “It is not possible to ban exports because farmers will suffer, but temporary steps can be taken. Once availability goes up, the artificial shortage will end and prices stabilize,” Singh said.     Sources blamed wholesalers for withholding stock to release it when prices rise further. “The artificial shortage will further drive prices up allowing wholesalers to make a neat profit,” said a source. But agriculture minister Radhakrishna Vikhe-Patil said there was no evidence of hoarding. “Vigilance squads found slow arrivals are hiking prices. We are thinking of setting up subsidized onion stalls.” (Inputs by Tushar Pawar from Lasalgaon)
‘Don’t fuss, eat less till new crop arrives’ Bella Jaisinghani TNN Mumbai: Retail vendors increased onion prices to Rs 70-80 per kg on Tuesday, up by Rs 10-20 over Monday’s prices. The price hike came even as wholesale rates fell to Rs 35.50 per kg.     Interestingly, on Tuesday, APMC director Ashok Walunj said the wholesale price of onion had dropped to Rs 45-47 per kg from Rs 55 per kg on Monday. However, the APMC website itself listed the average rate as Rs 35.50. Adding the cost of transportation, loading charges and wastage, the retail price should not then exceed Rs 40.     But prices continue to multiply in the absence of a government crackdown on hoarders and profiteers. Retailers are having a free run and continue to mark-up old stock. Stores in Lokhandwala Complex hiked rates to Rs 70 while vendors in Matunga chose to charge Rs 80.     Since wholesale rates are the yardstick to determine prices across the city, bulk traders are using every trick in the book to rig these. “The APMCs buy a few kilos of onion at inordinately high rates, say Rs 50-55, and label that as the selling price for the day. They conveniently ignore the fact that a majority of stock was purchased far cheaper, say from Rs 9 to Rs 22 per kg,” said a source.     However, the APMC does not understand the fuss. “Why do people have a problem with onion prices? It is only a matter of 15-20 days till the fresh crop arrives. Eat less for a few days, avoid wastage,” said Walunj.     While many people have already given up onion and garlic during the ongoing month of Shravan, others are seeking alternatives. “Some resourceful neighbours are finding ways to avoid onion by preparing dry items. They are adapting tomato, coconut, curd, cream and cornflour to gravy dishes instead,” said Srikala Ravi, a homemaker.     Restaurants like Potoba in Kalina University campus have begun to replace onion with radish and shredded cabbage as an accompaniment with meals, says owner Shivram. And Mumbai’s favourite onion fritters (kanda bhajiya) is off the menu. Potoba stopped serving on Monday, and on Tuesday, Shrikrishna Restaurant near Mahim fire brigade decided to stop preparing kanda bhajiya given that it was economically unviable to continue selling for Rs 20 per plate. “We bought onion for Rs 55 per kg on Tuesday and decided this was it. We will optimize consumption by removing bhajiya from the list,” said owner P J Bhat.
State blames farmers for onion tears Wholesalers Not Hoarding, Says Vikhe-Patil, Plans Special Outlets Bella Jaisinghani TNN     Afact-finding team appointed by the state agriculture ministry did not find any evidence that APMC wholesalers were hoarding onion stocks to create an artificial shortage. Agriculture minister Radhakrishna Vikhe-Patil told TOI Monday that it was greedy farmers who were holding on to produce instead, releasing it piecemeal in the hope of getting a better bargain.     While farmers may be a piece of the puzzle, wholesalers have undeniably been using the interval between the outgoing onion crop and the new one to make handsome profits. “Hoarding is rampant given that onions have a long shelf life. In fact, the summer or unhali kanda lasts up to seven months, so APMCs can buy in bulk and release the stock slowly,” said a source. “There is no fear of the law so retailers take the cue and arbitrarily hike prices as well.”     The state government now plans to start exclusive onion fair-price shops, sourcing from the APMC wholesalers who supply to its fair-price vegetable outlets. The modalities of the project remain to be worked out but Vikhe-Patil said he was looking to the distribution Onion at record high in Lasalgaon Nashik: Onion prices touched a record high of Rs 4,500 a quintal on Tuesday at Lasalgaon Agriculture Produce Market Committee (APMC), near Nashik, soaring for the second consecutive day. On Monday, onion prices in the country’s largest wholesale market were at an all-time high of Rs 4,300 a quintal, way above the previous high of Rs 3,200 a quintal recorded in 1998.     At Lasalgaon APMC, minimum and maximum prices recorded on Tuesday were Rs 2,000 and Rs 4,725 a quintal, respectively. Average wholesale onion prices in district APMCs, which were between Rs 4,300 to Rs 4,451 a quintal on Monday, were in the range of Rs 4,400 to Rs 4,500 a quintal on Tuesday.     A senior Lasalgaon APMC official told TOI that increase in demand and decline in supply led to a rise in average wholesale onion prices.     In 2010, the kharif onion crop was badly affected due to unseasonal rains and average wholesale prices reached around Rs 2,000 a quintal. The Centre banned onion exports on December 20, 2010. But by then, traders and farmers had already exported stocks, which compelled the government to import onions. Tushar Pawar | TNN model announced in Delhi by its chief minister Sheila Dixit. “We cannot control the APMCs but bigger cities do need intervention. We will see whether to buy from the open market and offer subsidy. After all, the state will have to bear the cost,” Vikhe-Patil said.     But experts say selling vegetables is not the answer to black-marketing, action should be taken against hoarding instead. “Fair-price shops benefit a small number of citizens. Moreover, retailers gradually feel less threatened by them and restore high prices as the days go by,” an expert said.     At present, the 70-odd fair price vegetable shops started by the state government are selling onion at Rs 5-6 less than market rate. “All vegetables are being sourced from the APMC itself so rates cannot be different. It will be interesting to see whether the exclusive onion stalls will compete with the fair-price vegetable shops. People will not accept a difference in pricing between two government outlets,” one expert said.
State fiddles as onion traders make a killing Bella Jaisinghani TNN Mumbai: Unscrupulous vendors increased the retail price of onion to Rs 70-80 per kg on Tuesday, up by Rs 10-20 from Monday. The prices continue to multiply with each passing day in the absence of a government crackdown on hoarders and profiteers. This despite wholesale rates falling to Rs 35.50 per kg, according to the APMC website, though APMC director Ashok Walunj quoted the wholesale price at Rs 45-47 per kg, down from Monday’s Rs 55 per kg. P 2 History shows onions can make parties cry New Delhi: It comes as no surprise that for a Parliament used to discussing scams worth thousands of crores, the stink raised by rising onion prices hasn’t reached its hallowed portals.     For more than a week of the Monsoon session, little work has been done, and even lesser time has been spent discussing spiralling prices of essential commodities. After all, onion prices have only touched Rs 100/kg and onions have not yet vanished from the subsidized food plates of honorable members of Parliament. Is it the reflection of a changing politics or have our leaders completely forgotten that a politician who does not know his onion cannot curry favour with voters?     Call it the demise of institutional memory from our polity or plain cynicism that there was a time when growing onion prices contributed to the fall of the otherwise credible Janata government in 1981 — forcing Indira Gandhi, who made a big comeback after her unceremonious exit in 1977, to call it the ‘onion election’. Soon, she realized onions had made her cry as well. By November 1981, prices had sky-rocketed to such a point — Rs 6/kg — that Lok Dal’s Rameshewar Singh walked into the Rajya Sabha wearing a garland of onions during the Winter session. Chairperson M Hidayatullah asked Singh what he was wearing around his neck. After Singh complained of rising onion prices, Hidayatullah, known for his ready wit, told him: “Let’s see what you will wear when the prices of tyres go up or, for that matter, the prices of shoes.”     Some protesting members of Congress (S) put onions on Hidayatullah’s desk. As the chairperson ordered their removal from his desk, Piloo Mody shot back, “It is very unfortunate that the chairman should take away all the onions with him.” L K Advanireminded the Congress how it had made onion an election issue and then conveniently swept it under the carpet.     The next day, Mody offered Rao Birendra Singh Rs 100 in the Upper House, asking him to get 50 kg of onions if the price had really come down to Rs 2 per kg. Rameshwar Singh went astep ahead and put Rs 1,300 on Hidyatullah’s desk asking him to organize cheap onions. Amid the din, Congress’s Hari Singh Nalwa actually took the money and promised to supply onions. Such wit and repartee, which made the larger point and forced the government to take action, are now only part of the archives as MPs rarely talk of onions or price rise.     But voters have a way of settling scores — something the political class knows too well. Be it the late Pramod Mahajan, who had onions hurled at him by agitated Nashik farmers in 2000, or the BJP — which met its nemesis during the 1998 election in Delhi and Rajasthan —onions do shape opinions.     In the words of a planning commission member, “Being able or not able to afford onions is how poverty is understood across the country. A callous government has turned deaf and the opposition thinks it has enough to bring it back to power. The humble onion could deep fry both.”
Inflation jumps to 5-month high TIMES NEWS NETWORK New Delhi: Rising vegetable prices and the impact of a weak rupee pushed inflation to a five-month high of 5.79% in July, posing yet another challenge for Asia’s third-largest economy battling to defend the rupee and boost growth.     Official data released on Wednesday showed inflation, as measured by the wholesale price index, jumped to 5.79% in July from the previous month’s 4.86%. Easing wholesale price inflation had fuelled expectations of a moderation in tight monetary policy but the slide of the rupee against the dollar has dashed those hopes for now.     Food inflation shot up to double-digit in July as onion prices spurted nearly 144.94% year-on-year, while overall vegetable prices rose an annual 46.59%. Cereal prices rose an annual 17.66% in July sustaining the pressure but prices of pulses declined 7.39%. Some relief was visible in softening milk and fruits prices.     Retail inflation is hovering around double digits and FM P Chidambaram has acknowledged that consumer price inflation is a problem and supplies need to be raised to tackle the situation. Policymakers said they expect a good monsoon to moderate food prices.
India may import onions from China, Pakistan, Iran Dipak Kumar Dash & Vishwa Mohan TNN New Delhi: Amid rising tensions along the Line of Control, the government has shortlisted Pakistan as one of the countries from which it plans to import onions in order to tide over supply shortage.     The Centre on Wednesday settled on the import option, identifying Pakistan, China, Iran and Egypt as counries to source onions from. Announcing a clutch of measures amid concerns about the political repercussions of spiraling onion prices, the government has set the minimum export price (MEP) of onion at $650 per tonne to discourage exports.     The public-sector agriculture marketing company NAFED — National Agriculture Cooperative Marketing Federation of India — will import onion “at best rates and offer the same for domestic consumption in the country”. At present, onion price is the cheapest in Iran followed by China, Egypt and Pakistan, a source said. The decision was taken at an inter-ministerial meeting on Wednesday.     Sources said imposition of MEP was the government’s first option to check onion exports and importing it be the second option. The MEP was scrapped in May last year, and its re-introduction is aimed at rendering exports non-profitable, the assumption being that traders would prefer to sell their products domestically to make more profit. Sources said commerce and industry minister Anand Sharma had floated the idea of imposing the MEP when onion prices touched Rs 35 per kg but the idea was shelved due to opposition from political parties.     Officials said strict quarantine rules, which acted as an obstacle to onion imports from China and other countries, would be eased to enable the entry of the staple.
Govt flying squad plans crackdown Sanjeev Shivadekar TNN Mumbai: The Maharashtra government, worried about escalating onion prices, finally swung into action on Wednesday. Agriculture minister Radhakrishna Vikhe-Patil announced that his department had set up a flying squad to initiate action against hoarders, if there are any.     “The squad will conduct surprise raids on traders. The department will initiate action against anyone found in possession of huge stocks,” Vikhe-Patil said. On what action would be initiated, he said, “We have told department officials to lodge an FIR against the culprits.”     Onion prices have shot up to more than Rs60 per kg in the last few days. While many people feel hoarding has increased due to the hike, agriculture department officials disagreed. “Onion production has gone down by over 35%. The drop in production and huge gap between demand and supply are key reasons for the spurt in prices,” a senior Mantralaya official said.     The agriculture minister’s office said prices are likely to come down by mid-September.     The Shiv Sena and Bharatiya Janata Party followed the MNS and opened counters selling onions at cheaper rates in a few areas.
Onion rates stabilize for first time in a week Available For 60-65 Per Kg At Most Markets Bella Jaisinghani TNN Mumbai: The reckless onion price spiral hit a plateau for the first time in a week on Wednesday. Rates stabilized at Rs60-65 per kg at most retail markets, with no reports of cost escalation since Tuesday.     Prices dropped by Rs5-6 to settle at Rs60-65 per kg across Byculla, Khar market, Lokhandwala in Andheri and Mulund (W). Greengrocers in Dadar (W), at Mount Mary (Bandra) and Breach Candy sold it for Rs70 but at spots like Matunga market and Jogeshwari, vendors refused to accept less than Rs80.     Retailers continued to earn handsome profits from every little sale. “I am forced to sell for Rs80 given that I am procuring it for Rs60. How can you call this black-marketing? If someone wishes to buy two kilos, I am willing to charge Rs70,” said Radhika Gupta, a vendor at Behrambaug, Jogeshwari. A similar Rs20-30 mark-up over wholesale rates was visible across markets.     APMC reported that wholesale rates remained static at Rs45-48 and are not likely to drop over the next fortnight. However, the APMC web site mentioned the rates as Rs27. Director Ashok Walunj said the wholesale market would remain closed on Thursday on account of Independence Day. Some loaders at Vashi are expected to strike work on Friday, so both factors may cause a brief interruption in supplies. But Walunj dismissed fears of the bulb hitting Rs100, saying this was an “alarmist view”.     Agriculture minister Radhakrishna Vikhe-Patil iterated that the government did not intend to intervene. “We did not come in when farmers were receiving a pittance of Re1 per kg in Lasalgaon, so how can we do so now when they are earning a better price? In a demand-supply situation, the market finds its own level,” he told TOI on Wednesday.     Interestingly, the onion crisis has led to a healthy debate within the ruling party. Maharashtra Congress chief Manikrao Thakre urged the government to crack down on hoarders who “are causing artificial hikes to defame the government in an election year”. But his party colleague Vikhe-Patil continued to deny hoarding was taking place.
NEWS DIGEST India may import onions from Pak The Centre has shortlisted Pakistan as one of the nations from where it plans to import onions to overcome the shortage that has led to the sudden rise in the vegetable’s price. In the city, retail rates stabilized at Rs 60-65 per kg on Wednesday. P 6, 12 HC judge summons senior traffic cop A sitting judge of the Bombay HC reportedly summoned a senior traffic police officer to the court on Wednesday after he got caught in a traffic jam near Mantralaya waiting for the CM’s convoy to pass. P 6 1st MERS patient in city? A 40-year-old man from Vashi may be the city’s first patient of the Middle East Respiratory Syndrome Coronavirus. P 3 Insurance relief ruling: A consumer forum has held that an insurance firm can’t reject a claim because the premium was received late and asked an Andheri man to be given Rs 1.25 lakh for his stolen auto with Rs 55,000 relief. P 4 Inflation at 5-month high: Inflation rose to a five-month high of 5.79% in July because of rising vegetable prices and a weak rupee. P 21 1.5cr diamonds stolen: A 25-year-old employee of a Gujarat trader has allegedly stolen diamonds worth Rs 1.5 crore from a safe at the BKC bourse. This is the first major theft at the bourse. P 8 
EXCEPTION HERE
Fair-price quickfix fails to halt runaway retail rates, vegetable prices soar again Bella Jaisinghani TNN Mumbai: The Maharashtra government is debating whether to open fair-price onion shops to curb soaring prices, hoping neighbourhood vendors will then be prompted to drop rates. However, its own experiment with fair-price vegetable outlets has proved that profiteering can’t be curbed by opening such stores in a few pockets of the city.     After a brief alarm over competition, greengrocers near government shops are once again charging Rs 60-80 per kg for most vegetables. A case in point is Dhake Colony, Andheri, where the first fair-price vegetable outlet opened at Apna Bazar.     TOI had reported how vendors in the vicinity, who were charging Rs 80-100 per kg for several vegetables, initially dropped rates to Rs 40-50. However, prices in the market are now back to around Rs 80. Siddhi Rane, a resident of Veera Desai Road, said the respite lasted barely two weeks. “Vendors are again charging high prices for cauliflower, cluster bean, lady finger, bitter gourd and tomato. They feel their profits will not be affected by a few people who queue up at Apna Bazar in the morning and afternoon.”     “It is unviable to travel to a fair-price outlet some distance away and wait in long queues to save some money. I would be happier if the state regulated retailers’ cartels to ensure they do not make unreasonable profit. If the government does not have the manpower to punish all of them, at least a few examples could be set and the rest would fall in line,” said Ashwini Marathe, a resident of the nearby Mhada Colony.     Since July 9, the government has opened 70-odd outlets selling cheaper vegetables. Initially, these stalls sold produce up to 50% lower than the market rate, but that gap has narrowed over time to merely 10%.     Moreover, in the case of onion, prices are expected to normalise once the new crop arrives end-August or early September, even as the government devises subsidy and supply logistics and arranges locations.
‘Nashik traders hoard onions, push up prices’ Plot To Release Stocks Slowly Into Mkt: Govt Rajeev Deshpande TNN New Delhi: The onion crisis gripping the government might be largely man made. Slow release of onion stocks by a clutch of traders rather than a shortfall in production has emerged as a key reason for retail prices rocketing to Rs 70-80 a kg.     The government uncovered the plot — hatched by traders operating from major onion markets in Nashik in Maharashtra — as it sought to figure out why a relatively small drop in production led to sharply reduced market arrivals.     “It appears that stored onions are being released slowly into the market which together with continuing demand is pushing up prices,” said a note considered by a review chaired by cabinet secretary Ajit Seth recently.     Confirming the official estimate, food and consumer affairs minister K V Thomas told TOI, “Delayed release of stocks and hoarding has been noticed. This can be a reason for higher retail prices. Concerned states have been asked to intervene and ensure steady supplies.” Thomas said the dip in production was around 7 lakh tonnes while exports rose slightly. He hoped that raising the minimum export price and tough measures by state governments would help stabilize prices in a week.     The math that puzzled officials was: Though onion production in 2012-13 declined only 5% and storage was less by just 2 lakh tonnes, market arrivals fell steeply by 20-40% in June-July 2013.     The declining arrivals made even less sense as the National Horticulture Research and Development Foundation reported onion stocks at a healthy 8-9 lakh tonnes — sufficient to meet demand till the kharif crop reaches markets.     The price manipulation was traced to the doorstep of traders controlling release of onion stocks to Nashik’s major markets of Pimpalgaon and Lasalgaon where rates are threatening to breach the Rs 5,000 a quintal mark.     The estimated storage in Maharashtra in 2013 — the state accounts for around 32% of production — is down by a mere 50,000 tonnes at 15 lakh tonnes. Storage is down by one lakh tonnes in Gujarat and it has not fluctuated much in other states.     Early arrival of the rabi crop saw an increase in exports in April and May but thereafter, the trend shows a declining curve, again spurring suspicion of supply manipulation being the reason for ascending retail prices.
Onion defies pricing logic, scales 80 in slum pockets but stays at 60 elsewhere Bella Jaisinghani TNN Mumbai: Spiralling onion prices reveal a rather interesting trend—rates are lower in relatively affluent areas whereas slum-dwellers have to shell out more than current average prices in the city.     Stores in Khar market, Andheri Lokhandwala and Kandivli’s Thakur Complex are selling for Rs 60 per kg even as greengrocers in Matunga and the slums of Jogeshwari are charging Rs 70-80. Analysts say factors behind a price mismatch are the quality-consciousness of a neighbourhood and profit margin determined by individual sellers. But retailers are now making greater profits by pricing the bulb higher in localities where people are more likely to buy in smaller quantities.     Turning the concept of pricey neighbourhoods on its head, vendors in Kadam Nagar slums near Behrambaug, Jogeshwari, charged Rs 80 on Wednesday and Rs 70 on Friday, while prices in Lokhandwala Complex dropped to Rs 60. Radhika, a vendor in Kadam Nagar, said locals were buying 250gm for Rs 20. Sellers procured just 30 kg over regular 100 kg, but made profits.     But trader Shravan R Gupta, who sells to individuals and hotels in Khar, said even Rs 60 was much. “Khar is an affluent locality yet sales are slow. Restaurants are mixing shredded cabbage with onion as an accompaniment,” he said.     Matunga and Jogeshwari are now vying with Breach Candy and Bandra Pali Market as the costliest for vegetables. Matunga resident K A Viswanathan said, “Onion vendors charged Rs 35-40 in mid-July, well before rates rose in other markets. We are now paying Rs 80.” Local vendor Rajendra Manojkumar said rates remained high as the Vashi wholesale market was closed for Independence Day.     “A new departmental store in Matunga named Aasaan announced 1 kg onion free with purchase of Rs 1,000,” said Viswanathan. The store is biting its tongue. “When we announced the offer on August 1, onions were Rs 30-35. Now we are making losses but can’t recall the offer,” said store manager Sachin Dhulap.
Nashik traders rigging onion prices: Govt Rajeev Deshpande TNN New Delhi: The onion crisis gripping the government might be largely man made. The government has uncovered a plot hatched by traders in the Pimpalgaon and Lasalgaon markets of Nashik to delay release of onion stocks. This slow release has emerged as a key reason for retail prices skyrocketing to Rs 70-80 a kg despite only a relatively small drop in production. Food and consumer affairs minister K V Thomas said that the concerned states have been asked to intervene and ensure stocks. 
OUT OF TURN Reboot or rewind to 1963 M J AKBAR It is distressing to note that India, which gave mathematics the noble concept of zero, should have missed the chance to offer history a perfect numerical symmetry. If a dollar was worth one rupee in 1947, then 66 years later poetic justice suggests it should be worth 66 rupees instead of a tawdry variable between 61 or 62. A rupee a year is a lyrical measure of decline. A few rupees more, and the Indian economy could have become such a sing-along nursery rhyme.     Satire is the thin wedge that separates fear from panic. Indian businessmen are not yet panic-stricken, but they are edging towards the zone of fear. As haemorrhaging international confidence in India weakens fund inflows, they know we cannot easily defend a rupee under siege. The statistics are chilling. Debt in the current fiscal is running at $172 billion. The Reserve Bank has foreign exchange for just seven months’ imports, which would have been manageable if the bleed was not moving from drip to gush. There is deep worry that vacuous governance and an unstable political environment will lead us to the door of the IMF in Washington, a large begging bowl in hand. Instead of answers, the UPA government is offering alibis, some of them so lame they seem struck with polio at birth. India has become the worst story in the BRIC club.     A robust economy, which is what India had become, does not wither because it has been suddenly hit by lightning; it enters a coma, limb by limb. This UPA administration believed that it could buy time with illusion, or by passing the blame to external factors or home-grown socialists. Last year, it even tried to scapegoat former finance minister Pranab Mukherjee after he moved upstairs to the President’s palace, and P Chidambaram was given the finance portfolio.     A sudden flurry of stories appeared— foreign correspondents seemed particularly gullible — suggesting that Chidambaram would, with a wizard’s touch, strengthen the rupee, slash the energy bill, reduce the deficit, pump up industrial production and tame inflation. Tell that to the onions in 2013.     Those at the rough end of inflation, the poor, are tired of excuses. They look at a nourishing monsoon and wonder why, as they head to the vegetable market, prices go up when there is drought, and rise further when there is rain. This is their translation of a government’s economic record. In 2005 a still buoyant Dr Manmohan Singh promised the nation from the ramparts of the Red Fort that poverty and ignorance (the term he used was jehalat) would end in 10 years. His plaintive admission, in this year’s Independence speech, that there was still a long way to go, is bitter testament to a failed decade.     The only culprit that the government can find is gold. Gold is the minor luxury that a confident economy purchases for its middle class. The cost of gold imports has become a problem only because the economy has imploded.     Analogy comes easily in conversation. Those with a reasonable memory have begun to worry about a return to 1991, when we sent our national gold reserves to London as collateral for foreign exchange. If we are not careful we might be staring at 1963, when finance minister Morarji Desai imposed gold control to save foreign exchange. Desai, and a much-weakened prime minister, Jawaharlal Nehru, could issue orders and change laws but they could not thwart the Indian’s appetite for gold, even when he was in a much more abstemious mood half a century ago. All that happened in the 1960s was that the consumer turned to smugglers. From this emerged underworld icons like Haji Mastan, Kareem Lala and their heir, Dawood Ibrahim. India has paid a heavy price, including the whiplash of terrorism.     When a nation’s confidence is undermined, adversaries abroad pounce to take advantage, and uncertainty within encourages social tensions. In the 1960s we were tested by both China and Pakistan; today Pakistan ambushes an Indian army patrol, kills five jawans and passes a resolution in its parliament condemning Indian aggression. We will not, thank heaven, return to the sixties. India is much stronger now, and there is only so much harm that an indecisive government can inflict upon a nation’s ability. All governments in a democracy are temporary.     Equally, the optimism that we had begun to take for granted, perhaps out of complacency, has been derailed. The challenge of 2014 is not going to be winning an election, but restoring the economy to health and vigour. A nation is only as strong as its economy. There is no magic wand as we enter our 67th year. There was no wand in 1991 either. We recovered because we needed the shock to come to our senses. It is time for a radical reboot once again.
Armed robbers steal onion truck Ashish Mehta TNN Jaipur: In an unusual case of robbery, three armed men hijacked a truck carrying onions on the Jaipur-Delhi highway here. The truck was, however, recovered after two hours.     The retail price of onion has hit between Rs 65 and Rs 75 per kg at markets here.     The incident took place on Sunday at 10pm when the truck driver Mintu and his cleaner Rinku were on their way to Meerut after loading 40 tonnes of onion from a market in Sikar. “The duo said that three unidentified men in a vehicle blocked their way at Shahpura village and had a heated argument with them, accusing them of hitting their vehicle. They asked Mintu and Rinku to came out of the vehicle to settle their loss,” said a police officer.     When the driver and cleaner got out of the truck, the three men pushed them away and boarded it, police added. “We got a wireless message at 10.30pm. After a search of almost two hours, we spotted the truck near an isolated place away from the highway,” said an officer.     The police said that the robbers took advantage of rain and darkness and fled the spot. A case of robbery has been registered against the three unidentified men. The onion-laden truck was released from the court on Monday and the driver and cleaner resumed their journey to Meerut. Onion prices show signs of correction Two-Fold Rise In Arrival Of Fresh Crop In Market New Delhi: There were signs of onion prices falling in certain cities on Monday. Similar correction in prices are expected in the next few days as arrival has increased almost two-fold at Asia’s largest onion market in Lasalgaon. Similar was the trend in Pimpalgaon and Delhi.     Food ministry sources said higher quantity of onion arriving at markets will increase supply across the country in the next few days that would result in decline of prices. On Monday, the total onion arrival at Lasalgaon reached 9,000 quintals against 4,580 quintals last week. At Lasalgaon, Pimpalgaon and Delhi, the total arrival was around 22,000 quintals. Even wholesale prices at Lasalgaon fell from Rs 4,700 a quintal last week to Rs 3,251 on Monday. Mandis in Agra, Delhi, Mumbai and Indore also saw the same trend. Retail prices fell by Rs 5 and Rs 10 per kg in Agra and Delhi.     As the prices showed signs of correction, government is unlikely to take the extreme step of banning export of the commodity. Sources said the fall in price is due to increased supply. There were reports that the scarcity was “created” by hoarders. “Now, they also know that new crop will be available in the market. They might have released the stock,” said a government official. Overall, the prices have corrected by over 32% from its peak levels a week ago. Earlier in the day, food minister K V Thomas met agriculture minister Sharad Pawar to discuss the issue.     Meanwhile, Pawar said he would not be able to say when the prices would ease as rain had hit supplies from key growing states. “I don’t know about prices but I know about the crop condition. The crop in Nashik has been affected due to drought. As on today, the overall crop condition is good,” he said.     Sources said fresh arrivals have started from Andhra Pradesh. But full-fledged arrivals will begin from mid-September, when Maharashtra and Karnataka farmers will bring their crop to the market.     Arrivals are expected any time from Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan but these states are facing logistics problem due to rain, Pawar told reporters on the sidelines of an ICAR event. To control rising prices, last week the government had notified minimum export price (MEP) of $650 per tonne and had directed cooperative major Nafed to import onions. Nafed may float tender this week for importing onions. India has reportedly exported 6.39 lakh tonnes during the April-July period of this fiscal. In Lasalgaon, prices drop 20% in 2 days Nashik: After the sharp rise in onion prices over the past week, the average wholesale rates in the country’s largest market at Lasalgaon Agriculture Produce Market Committee dropped for the first time on Monday, over fears among traders about possible import of the crop from the neighbouring countries. Prices are expected to drop further in the next 2-3 days, market officials said.     The average wholesale onion prices declined by 20.47% to Rs 3,340 a quintal on Monday compared with Rs 4,200 a quintal on Saturday. In the markets across the city, prices dropped marginally as retailers sold good quality onions in the range of Rs 40-50 a kg on Monday. TNN
T H E Y SA I D I T
As onion rates soar, imports to cool prices Vishwa Mohan TNN New Delhi: Retail onion prices have bounced back to Rs 70-80 a kg and cooperative major Nafed on Wednesday floated tenders inviting traders to import the veggie from Pakistan, Iran, China and Egypt.     The imports will take at least two weeks to ease the prices. Officials expect the initial consignments from Pakistan by early next month.     “Supplies from Pakistan will not only be cost effective, but they’ll also take less time to deliver the consignments,” an official said. The Wagah Border may be preferred for the imports.     Nafed took a week to float the tenders after the government decided on imports on August 14. It asked private traders to submit their proposals with final rates by August 27. The shortlisted importers will have another seven days to deliver onions to the federation for distribution.     Since the cooperative major wants importers to deliver consignments at its warehouse in the capital’s Lawrence Road, it is expected that the initial imports will most likely be from Pakistan. Later supplies from Iran, China and Egypt will keep the chain going in the coming months.     The federation came out with the tender a day after public sector company PEC Limited floated an expression of interest for empanelment of international suppliers for import of 3 lakh tonnes of onion.
LEARNING WITH THE TIMES Low foreign inflows added to CAD woes What is current account deficit (CAD)? The inflow of money into the country and outflows from it are summarized in what is called the balance of payments (BoP). You could think of it as a balance sheet vis-à-vis the rest of the world. The BoP is broken down into two major components — the current account and the capital account.     The current account includes all inflows and outflows of a routine nature. Thus, exports of goods and services, remittances received from Indians abroad, foreign tourists bringing money into India and similar other items form part of the inflows or the credit side of the current account. Conversely, imports, remittances by expatriates to their home countries, Indians travelling abroad form part of the outflows or debit. When outflows exceed inflows, you have a current account deficit. Of course, if inflows exceeded outflows, it would be a surplus.     The capital account deals with longer-term flows, like borrowings, investments, assistance by India to other countries or to India by others, and so on. The broad principle is that any inflow or outflow that tends to necessitate future transactions (like loans being returned) will be part of the capital account. Here again, the difference between outflows and inflows would be the capital account surplus — if inflows exceed outflows — or deficit. If the capital surplus is not enough to cover CAD, the country will have to take money out of its forex reserves to bridge the difference, thereby reducing its reserves. If the capital account surplus is larger than CAD, the difference gets added to the reserves. Why is CAD so important? In effect, it is a measure of how much an economy is dependent on capital flows from abroad to help it meet its current needs. Obviously, if this dependency is high, it is a sign of a problem. To see how high the dependency is, economists look not at the absolute level of CAD, but its level in relation to the size of the economy, since a tiny economy with, say, a CAD of $200 billion is clearly in a bigger hole than a large economy with the same absolute level. Hence, what is looked at is the CAD as a percentage of GDP. In India’s case, this is now at about 4.8%, a significant rise from about 1.3% in 2007-08. What this means is that India’s demand for foreign currency, particularly dollars, has gone up dramatically in the last few years (mainly on account of oil and gold imports) while supply hasn’t quite kept pace (thanks to weak exports).     The widening CAD could have been funded by a heavy inflow of foreign investments — direct (FDI) and/or institutional (FII), but that hasn’t happened either. Policy paralysis, political uncertainty, sliding industrial output and a weakening economy (as evident from a     quarter-on-quarter     drop in growth figures) has turned off     foreign investors, who     now find they can get     better returns on their capital elsewhere in the world.     This demand-supply mismatch of dollars is at the core of the US currency becoming more expensive. How are US bonds connected to all this?     US treasury bonds     are essentially instruments floated by     the US Federal Reserve (the American     equivalent of the RBI) to borrow money. All other things being equal, the status of the US as the world’s largest economy and the dollar as a global reserve currency means that investors see putting their money in US bonds as arguably the most risk-free option. However, when US treasury bonds offer very low rates of interest, this advantage can be offset by others offering significantly higher rates. In such a situation, portfolio investors, who roam the world looking for the best possible returns, are more likely to invest elsewhere. Emerging markets, including India, are often the biggest gainers in such situations. When the US economy is doing well, the flows can reverse. This is what is happening as the US economy shows visible signs of recovering after a prolonged crisis (starting late-2008). What is the QE and why is its tapering seen as a problem? Following the 2008 crisis, the US Fed resorted to bond-buying as a means of boosting the economy. When the Fed buys up bonds, it is effectively releasing more money into the markets and hence reducing interest rates (since interest rate is essentially the cost of demand for money, so when supply rises to meet demand, interest rate comes down — just as, say, the price of onion will fall when supply in the market rises). This was dubbed a ‘quantitative easing’ measure, hence the QE. This made borrowing in the US cheaper and hence incentivized borrowers to invest (in housing or in their businesses). In June this year, Fed chief Ben Bernanke signalled that the QE process might be tapered off. That would imply interest rates in     the US climbing     again. That, as we     saw earlier, could     lead to investors     flocking to the US     and pulling out of emerging markets, including India.
MAKING A KILLING The Great Nashik Onion Rip-Off Traders Earned 150 Crore Selling Hoarded Stock In 4 days Tushar Pawar TNN Nashik:In just four days from August 12 to 15, traders in Nashik district and other cities earned a whopping Rs 150 crore by pushing into the wholesale market nearly five lakh quintal of onions that they had hoarded.     Traders who had bought the crop from farmers at an average rate of Rs 1,500 per quintal in June and July sold it at an average rate of Rs 4,500 per quintal in those four days, TOI has learnt after interviewing many onion farmers, exporters, middlemen, representatives of the Agriculture Produce Market Committee (APMC), National Agriculture Cooperative Marketing Federation of India, National Horticulture Research and Development Foundation and government officials.     These figures were corroborated by almost all officials. Several traders privately concurred with the numbers but publicly denied the allegations of holding on to stocks. The hoarding by traders contributed heavily to the onion shortage and soaring prices across the country. Since August 12, prices in the retail market have ranged from Rs 55 per kg in Mumbai and Rs 70 in Pune to Rs 80 in Delhi.     By the time the state government woke up to inspect the godowns of these traders in Lasalgaon and Pimpalgaon in Nashik district, the stock had already been sent to the wholesale markets.     On August 12, when the Lasalgaon Agriculture Produce Market Committee opened after a three-day holiday, the average wholesale onion price was at an all-time high of Rs 4,300 per quintal. The next day it peaked to Rs 4,500 per quintal, and remained at this price on August 14. The previous high was Rs 3,200 per quintal in 1998. With a storage capacity of 12.5 lakh tonne, big farmers and onion traders in Lasalgaon and many dealers from across the country could hoard the summer crop harvested in April and May that has a shelf life of seven months, TOI learnt.     A senior official from the Lasalgaon APMC said, “Farmers stock onions in the hope of getting better prices. The APMCs were closed on 19 days between July 6 and August 15. This led to a sharp fall in supply. When the demand peaked from August 9, the traders took advantage and sold their stock in the wholesale markets across the country to make a killing.”     The onset of the monsoon added in a small way to the shortage. Farmers who had stored their onions and were busy with the kharif crop cultivation could not bring them to the markets in the rain.     While speaking on record, onion traders said there was no wrongdoing on their part. “The allegations against us are false. The government is misguiding the people,” said Sohanlal Bhandari, president of Nashik District Onion Traders’ Association.
Onion crisis forecast, states ignored alert TIMES NEWS NETWORK New Delhi: Two months before onion prices touched Rs 70-80 a kg, states were warned of an impending spike in rates and offered the option of booking stocks in advance at a modest Rs15.50 per kg—the market rate—at the onion hub of Nashik in June.     Not a single state responded and the National Agricultural Cooperative Marketing Federation of India’s (Nafed) offer to procure and store onions at its cold storage complex at Nashik to be accessed during the lean season went a begging.     Nafed sought advance payment for storage and transport, but even after taking into account the additional expenses, the sale price would have been considerably below the current retail rates.     In fact, states could have recovered costs even while cooling retail rates. SPIKE WARNING Nafed warned states two months before onion prices touched Rs 70-80 a kg Offered the option of booking stocks in advance at a modest Rs15.50 per kg—the market rate—at the onion hub of Nashik in June The sale price would have been considerably below the current retail rates Nafed had issued alert about spike in onion prices, states did not pay heed New Delhi: National Agricultural Cooperative Marketing Federation of India (Nafed) managing director Sanjeev Chopra’s June 21 communication to the states had drawn attention to a consumer affairs department alert about a “…likely spike in price of onion in the coming months, specially during the period October-December, 2013.” But all states chose to ignore the alert.     Chopra, who is also a joint secretary in the agriculture ministry, wrote to state governments saying the prevailing rate at wholesale markets in Nashik was Rs 1,550 a quintal. “The exact quantity of onion being procured on your behalf may kindly be indicated to enable Nafed to procure the requisite quantity,” he said. Sources said no state responded although Nafed was to levy just 2% as administrative charges.     In a few weeks, the onion shortage struck earlier than expected with heavy monsoons hurting crops and affecting storage as well.     The price spiral saw the central government on the ropes in the face of a concerted Opposition attack while private traders turned niggardly in releasing their stocks. This was despite the national stock situation being only 2 lakh tonnes less than last year. Slow release is suspected to have pushed up retail prices of onion in the whole sale market with a further mark up in retail rates. Rajasthan robbers flee with truck carrying onions worth 3 lakh Bikaner:Soaring prices of onion seem to have made them the favourite item for highway robbers. Barely five days after armed robbers looted a truck carrying onions, a similar robbery was reported in Nagaur district of Rajasthan on Friday.     Nearly eight robbers looted a truck loaded with onions in Shri Balaji area of Nagaur district. According to SHO Shantilal of Shri Balaji police station in Nagaur, a truck, loaded with onion bags was on its way to Ludhiana. Around eight people came out from the jeep and surrounded the driver and helper of the truck.     Another team of robbers arrived at the spot and took away the truck. “The onions were worth about Rs 3 lakh,” said the officer. TNN
PC: Govt steps led to rupee devaluation TIMES NEWS NETWORK New Delhi: Finance minister P Chidambaram acknowledged that some government steps had contributed to the devaluation of rupee while adding that UPA would try to surmount judicial restraint on natural resources and land acquisition that have put a spoke in the growth wheel.     Replying to a debate on the economic crisis in Lok Sabha, Chidambaram said the government has to overcome judicial orders that either bar or put an elaborate process for mining, environmental clearance and land acquisition.     He lamented that the government has to approach the apex court’s empowered panels for every environment clearance, adding it need not be so.     “We have to resolve this in a way that we are respectful to the Supreme Court but we assert the authority of Parliament,” he said, without specifying the correctives in mind.     The mention of land acquisition hampering growth comes amid Lok Sabha listing the vexed land acquisition amendment bill for discussion on Thursday.     Speaking on rupee depreciation in Rajya Sabha, Chidambaram said, “We recognize there are domestic factors… we allowed the fiscal deficit to be breached and we allowed current account deficit to swell because of certain decisions that we took during the period 2009 to 2011.”     While the government spoke with optimism, the opposition hauled the government over the coals for the floundering economy in Lok Sabha.     BJP leader Yashwant Sinha lambasted the leadership of Manmohan Singh-Chidambaram for ruining the economy and rhetorically said Congress should call elections. “In the name of god, go,” he said.     CPI leader Gurudas Dasgupta, who initiated the debate, warned of a re-run of the 1991 crisis.     Sinha slammed the financial mandarins of UPA as “incompetent doc” who were at sea in dealing with the challenges that he said were a result of UPA’s reckless policies. Ally SP joins oppn ranks to corner govt over price rise T he Samajwadi Party, which provides crucial outside support to the UPA, on Tuesday joined the Opposition in slamming the government for rise in prices of essential commodities, including onion.     Participating in a short duration discussion in the Rajya Sabha on abnormal rise in prices of onion and other essential commodities, SP member Naresh Agrawal said the price of the vegetable has touched Rs 80 per kg but the government has failed to come out with a solution. TNN Thanks to inflation, pension hike for ageing babus B ringing cheer to retired bureaucrats, the government has amended post-retirement rules making them eligible to get “additional pension” once they turn 80. And, the monthly pension will double if they turn 100.     The change will benefit retired government officials who had been part of Indian Administrative Service (IAS), Indian Police Service (IPS) and Indian Forest Service (IFoS). Retired government servants of other 37 central services have been covered under similar pension facility for long. TNN
Want cheap veggies? Robotics contest may provide solutions TIMES NEWS NETWORK Mumbai: Imagine a bot harvesting onions in your backyard or cherry tomatoes in your balcony. With vegetable prices soaring, two IITBombay (II-B) professors are promoting urban farming using technology.     As a part of e-Yantra, a government-financed project under the National Mission On Education through ICT, engineering students across the country will be challenged to use robotics to develop indigenous solutions in urban agriculture. The aim of the competition is to expose students to the problems farmers face and how technology may be used to provide solutions.     “Covered cultivation or greenhouses can double or triple the yield—even allowing us to grow vegetables offseason, that is, cultivate in controlled environments which increases yield. When we want to maximize yield in environments, automation helps us tend the environment and improve yield,” said professor Kavi Arya, associate professor, IIT-B. Many of the processes in strawberry cultivation in the West, including harvesting, are automated. Typically, this technology is at the early innovation stage in developing countries and is expensive. “There is a lot that Indian ingenuity might bring to this important domain in future,” he said.     Student teams will work on prototypes of robots such as the seed-sowing robot, fertilizing robot, weeding robot and harvesting robot. Each group will programme an existing robotic platform to address each of these aspects during the 12 weeks.     While creating the prototypes, students will learn concepts of embedded systems, micro-controller programming and hone their communication skills, said IIT-B professor Krithi Ramamritham.     “In a growing economy, cheap skilled labour is a myth. Transporting vegetables over long distances amid rising cost of diesel is another cause behind rising costs of vegetables. The time is ripe for urban farming, high-intensity cultivation and for automation to help bring down the cost of food,” said Arya.     Ramamritham said, “The progress of our nation lies in producing high quality (employable) engineers with the education and adequate exposure to technology and the appropriate skill set at a young age to think innovatively and develop indigenous cost-effective solutions.”
Costly onions? Try some onion-free cooking Can’t afford onions at the moment? Foodies tell you how you can whip up delicious dishes sans the kitchen favourite Ismat Tahseen     One of the most important vegetables in any kitchen, onions are currently generating more tears than ever before, with their prices touching almost 100 a kilo a while back in Mumbai. With this staple turning precious, looks like it’s time we learn to cook without them. But, is it that easy? “Yes, it is,” insists foodie Sunayan Shahani, “With onion prices hitting the rooftops, I am really envious of my Jain friends. Taking cue from their recipes, you can always prepare dishes like poha and pav bhaji — which one may not be able to imagine without onions —and make them delicious even without them.” INDIAN FOOD WITHOUT ONIONS Do you like to begin your day with poha? You can do so without one of its main ingredients. Says Sunayan, “With poha, you can simply use peanuts, curry leaves, turmeric and chillies to spice it up, adding a dash of lime juice for that extra zing. Trust me, you won’t miss onions. Asafoetida or hing is a great substitute to onions as well. Use it in your pav bhaji or other gravy recipes for the same flavour.” SOUTH INDIAN DISHES SHOW THE WAY City-based chef Sudhir Pai has an interesting solution — adapt South Indian dishes to North Indian flavours. “In South Indian Brahmin communities, Kerala or even Bangalore, the dry veg component is always the vegetable itself and a tadka. And in wet preparations, coconut is used. A North Indian can adopt this cooking by using his or her traditional masala with this cooking style. You can have avial, tendli or parwal sans onions or the Mangalorean fish gassi or kori roti (chicken curry made with roasted spices). It’s also very beneficial to cook without onions as lesser oil would obviously be used.” Of course, Mughlai cooking might not be as easy to do without this ingredient. “If you have to make a Mughlai gravy, use khus-khus (poppy seeds), chaar magaz (pumpkin seeds) or cashewnuts ground in water. This might not be a cheap option, though,” he says. BENGALI FOOD WORKS WELL TOO While several Indian dishes must have onions, some cuisines do away with them entirely, like Bengali food. Affirms blogger and foodie Kalyan Karmakar, “Most Bengali vegetarian recipes are onion-free. That’s because most Bengali kitchens were once ruled by family matrons who were widows. These ladies were not allowed onions in their diet, as onions were not considered vegetarian according to the Hindu scriptures followed in these houses.     Even the patla machher jhol is made without onions in Bengali homes. “It gets its flavours from turmeric, green chillies, kalo jeere or nigella seeds and occasionally chopped tomatoes. The more regal doi maachh (fish in yogurt sauce) also does not have onions,” he adds. He presents an alu posto recipe, minus onions... MAKE ALU POSTO Boil one tablespoon of mustard oil. Add a teaspoon of panch phoron Bengali five spices and two whole green chillies. Add three parboiled potatoes cut into small cubes. Stir. Then, add the paste of 50 g of ground posto (poppy seeds) with water to the mix and stir. Add salt per taste and a quarter teaspoon of turmeric for colour. The latter is optional. Add half a tea cup of water and boil. Reduce the flame and let the mix simmer till the water dries up. QUICK TIPS FOR CURRY: Increase ratio of tomatoes. Use ground coconut. When making lamb or chicken curry, add potatoes which make the gravy thicker, allowing less use of onions. OTHER TOPPINGS FOR YOUR PIZZA Use fresh tomatoes or buy the sundried variety. Sauteed mushrooms, bell peppers. Add basil leaves to it. Use mozarella cheese and olives. Add roasted eggplant and/or a meat or your choice.
Lasalgaon auctions halted over new norms Tushar Pawar TNN Nashik: The Agriculture Produce Market Committee (APMC) at Lasalgaon — the country’s largest onion market — on Wednesday halted the auction of all commodities, except green vegetables and tomatoes, following refusal by traders to accept the new norms.     The decision to halt the auction has sparked fears of further shortage of onions, which have seen prices skyrocketing to as much as Rs 70 in the retail market, if the stalemate continues.     Of the 15 APMCs in Nashik district, Lasalgaon is the largest. Auctions were called off at the smaller ones at Niphad and Vinchur. The state government has instructed APMCs to increase porterage and weighing charges by 44% and announced abolition of the weighing bridge charges. The deputy district registrar has issued a circular.     “After the traders refused to accept the new norms, the porters decided not to cooperate. Hence, we called off the auction to avoid inconvenience,” said an APMC official.     Lasalgaon Onion Traders’ Association president Nandkumar Daga, however, said traders were not opposed to the decision. “But we are against the levy of 34%, which is charged by the Labour Board on total portal and weighing charges.”
PRICEY ONION UP FOR GRABS
NEWS DIGEST BMC clears policy for rooftop eateries The BMC has approved a policy to allow rooftop eateries in the city. These will be allowed only in commercial buildings or those housing hotels. The conditions to get licences, like that for serving liquor, will be the same as that for bars and restaurants. P 4 BEST ups power rates, bus fares may be next BEST will hike power tariffs for the island city by 13-15% for the current financial year from September 1. It has also warned of a bus fare hike in the next few weeks due to the impact of the falling rupee. P 2 Holiday for state govt offices today State government offices will be shut in the island city and suburbs on Thursday on account of Dahi Handi. 11 killed in building collapse in Vadodara At least 11 people were killed in a building collapse in Vadodara, Gujarat, on Wednesday. The victims were asleep when the building built for the poor crashed. P 10 SC: Pay 3L-6L to kids disabled in accidents The Supreme Court has said children disabled in road accidents must get a compensation between Rs 3 lakh to Rs 6 lakh. P 10 Auction of onions stalled at Lasalgaon Onion auction has been stalled at the Lasalgaon wholesale market as traders have refused to accept new norms, sparking fears of prices shooting up again. P 10 
Restaurant Review AROLA It is an undisputed fact. Spain reigns the gastronomic world, France lags behind. For the past many years, as regional jury chairperson of the ‘The World’s 50 Best Restaurant Academy,’ I have been saluting ‘El Bulli’ (which crowned the global list for years) and this year again it was ‘El Cellar De Can Roca’. Having eaten in these magnificent restaurants and also in trendsetting Sergi Arola’s Michelin starred restaurants in Madrid (he’s also got restaurants in Paris, Tokyo, Sao Paolo, Barcelona) I was looking forward to his debut in Mumbai’s JW Marriott. There was a clear identity crisis. Wasn’t it more of a Tapas Lounge? And less of a gastronmique three Michelin starred restaurant, that it was being marketed as in it’s high profile glitzy launches? We were disappointed. AROLA TAPAS LOUNGE BAR The good news: Arola has found it’s identity. No! Don’t go expecting leisurely fine dining. Go if you’re looking for a highenergy bar and lounge with Spanish Tapas.The crescent shaped, luminous bar takes centre stage, the Dj pumps up the music as the creative cocktails and bitesized tapas do the rounds. Over 31 labels of gin, Arola’s dry martini (made of creole bitters, passion fruit bitters,) Sangria Sergi (which made to Arola’s secret recipe) are a must-try here. DÉCOR Sprawling spaces, textured wooden floors, geometric lattice work screens a terrace with fabulous views of the sea here. The focus remains the glowing moonshaped bar. ARORAS AT AROLA I’d dined three times before the ‘Tapas Lounge’ avatar was fine tuned. Recently, I dine with a vibrant family for whom JW Marriott has been like a second home. The two handsome young lads, sports champions (in squash and swimming) are here on a summer break from studying in the US. Both have grown up eating Nanu Sanjay Khan’s creative cooking, Nani Zarine’s amazing biryanis. Mamu Zayed’s Continental creations. Yuraaz has just come back after 10 days of training at a football camp in Spain, while Armaan has produced a play here, whose proceeds have gone to charity. Their lovely mother Simone, the creative head and coowner (with dapper husband Ajay Arora) of India’s biggest home furnishing company, is working on an exciting new SOBO project and is a foodie extraordinaire. We have a fun meal, they love the music, décor, warm service and some of the food. FOOD Along with the announcement of its lounge bar concept come new dishes. Still in the Tapas style... served for all to share, presented on small beautiful ceramic, glass and stone plates. In the newly introduced dishes are many a (what I call) flavour-building assembly kits. Onto a potato egg tortilla, you scoop some of the garlicky aioli, add a dollop of paprika tomato puree followed by crunchy fried onions. The deconstructed chicken Caeser salad, the chicken three ways are all delightful variations. Recently introduced cocas (including a vegetarian one) Spanish version of pizzas are crisp and topped with flavourful toppings. Ask for the traditional patatas bravas (fierce potatoes) rendered as small cylinders topped with cloudy tufts of creamy mayonnaise. Executive chef Himanshu Taneja ensures that the most authentic of ingredients are cooked to Arola’s recipes. Short grained carnaroli rice finished with cheese, crunchy artichokes and truffle mayo delights. Sous vide chicken stuffed with salsify satisfies. On a previous dinner, the tender terrine of suckling pig in delectably cubes lacked the traditional crunch of roasted skin, but was still superb. The all-time star here sparkles in a light as air, luscious crema catalana dessert, dusted with cinnamon, with whispers of citrus. Even the delicate bread-based dessert of torrija with orange sorbet and vanilla amaretto foam thrills. MINUS POINTS Portion sizes continue to be too small. In a bid to reach out to the Indian diner, they dropped the raw sea urchin and unfortunately with it my favourite scallop carpaccio. Roasted vegetables make strange bedfellows with papadum. Some of the seafood is overcooked. Sautéed prawns are great one meal and not so good at another. Limp green asparagus tempura, overcooked eggplant with pine nuts and no chocolate dessert at all. MY POINT Small portions and high prices, but still there is nothing like this stylish, edgy, high-energy lounge with so many seating options, a fantastic range of music and cocktails. There is contemporary, upscale Spanish Tapas that is not uniformly excellent. Arola has found its identity. No! It is not a gastronomique, fine-dining experience but a lounge bar. May Arola roll... CALLING YOU Thanks a million for your messages. Your very own Times Food Guide 2014 is readying to go to press, want to include any of your favourite caterers in it? Tweet (@rashmiudaysingh), Email (rashmiudaysingh2014@gmail.com) and sms (98203 33663). Waitingly yours! TIMES FOOD GUIDE Arola Lobby Level, JW Marriott Hotel, Juhu. Call: 022-6693 3000. Timings: Open from 5 pm to 1 am. Price: Meal for two is 5,000. RATING: • Food: 3.5 • Service: 4 • Décor: 4 Do you agree? Write your own review and give it a rating at
Round Idlis, Square Meals Your daily bread and butter might be shrinking – but don’t despair!     A new study finds that a breakfast comprising three idlis, a bowl of sambhar and a cup of coffee is the most nutritious of morning meals. Foodies can now truly rise and shine, boosted by the thought of consuming fluffy idlis at first light. Similarly, the news brings good cheer to those watching their weighing machines since idlis are light on waistlines too. And here’s the sauciest of silver linings – sidestepping pricey onions, this breakfast is feather-light on your wallet as well, a huge plus-point considering how the tanking economy might make us kiss spicy omelettes, sweet waffles and darling clementines a wistful goodbye.     But there’s no reason to despair over your daily bread as the study suggests you’re safe with an idli in your hand. The desi delicacy remains untouched by annoying nouvelle gastronomy nataks – accompanied by chutney bombs or foie gras foam – which chefs who think they’re scientists keep conjuring up. Such simplicity has ensured that an idli remains affordable to all, true comfort food we can clutch in discomforting times.     Little wonder that Tamil Nadu chief minister Jayalalithaa, sensing the power of a powder-puff idli, has opened low-cost Amma Unavagam joints dispersing sambhar trails across the state. For those beyond Jaya’s largesse, the challenge is finding three idlis, sambhar and a coffee at the government’s pretty notion of poverty line prices, which, given pressurecooking food costs, many of us middle-class sorts are looking closely at. But there’s a possible sweet treat here – Raj Babbar could lead us to the cheapest ever idli stall. It’s probably next to the eatery where he gets those 12-rupee rice plates.
BIZARRE! Hybrid pizza-burger newly created in Japan     Apizza/burger hybrid has been created in Japan.A popular chain in the country has created this treat that is all to be doled out across its different outlets to the foodies in the country. This hybrid version is a calorific treat and it features two beef patties that are carefully sandwiched between two 11-inch pizzas. This sinful treat comes with onions, pickles, mustard and tomato ketchup.     This fast food treat is expected to be priced a little over $26 and will be sold over the next two months.     The food critics are of the opinion that this highly priced treat will still be a hit in the market, as it offers two popular snacks combined.
Reluctant importers add to onion price woes Vishwa Mohan TNN New Delhi: Private traders’ reluctance to import onions has spelt trouble for the government grappling with soaring price of the vegetable.     Cooperative major Nafed came out with a fresh tender on Monday since its earlier one on August 21 had failed to attract traders to import onions from Pakistan, Iran, China or Egypt. Only three private international traders had shown interest till the deadline of the first import tender expired on August 27.     And two importers wanted to deliver the vegetable at Panvel in Mumbai instead of Nafed’s warehouse at Lawrence Road here as specified in the tender, making them ineligible to import from any of the four shortlisted countries.     Since the Federation had to select at least three importers who can fulfill both cost and delivery norms, it has been forced to float another tender with the last date of application submission being fixed for September 6. Nafed is hopeful that the new deadline may help it get eligible importers.
EXCEPTION HERE
‘Onion prices to stay high till Sept-end’ —Bella Jaisinghani Mumbai: Wholesale traders at the APMC now say onion prices will remain high until September-end. They claim the “arrival of the new crop has been delayed due to excess rain”.     On August 15, these middlemen as well as state government officials had promised that prices would normalize in a fortnight. Yet onion prices continue to remain Rs 55-60 per kg in retail markets. “A heavy shower last month has delayed the new crop,” said Ashok Walunj of APMC. On August 15, he had said sowing began early this year, so things would normalize once the new crop arrived in September first week.     Meanwhile, on Saturday, the latest fair price onion store was inaugurated at the home of state agriculture minister Radhakrishna Vikhe-Patil in Sagar, Malabar Hill. Members of the public were invited there to buy vegetables for Rs 30-40 per kg, an average of Rs 20-40 less than the market rate. Yet, onions sold for Rs 48 here too. “The wholesale rate remains Rs 49. We are trying our best to sell at optimum rates,” said an official.     “Everybody knows this artificial shortage is caused by hoarders. Yet the government denies this,” said Vishwas More from Lalbaug.
Onion price hits a record 4,800 in Lasalgaon Tushar Pawar TNN Nashik: The average onion wholesale price at the country’s largest market for the commodity — Lasalgaon Agriculture Produce Market Committee (APMC) — mounted to an all-time high of Rs 4,800 a quintal on Friday. It broke the previous high of Rs 4,500 on August 13.     The minimum and maximum prices were recorded at Rs 2,500 and Rs 5,016 a quintal respectively as around 6,500 quintals of onion were auctioned.     Market sources said the prices rose due to a sharp decline in supply. Moreover, the arrival of fresh kharif crop in the market is still 20 days away. The fluctuation in onion prices is expected to continue for the next couple of weeks.     National Agriculture Cooperative Federation of India director Changdeo Holkar said supply has declined in almost all onion markets across the country.     “The arrival of kharif crop from states like Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh has stopped due to rains there. The wide gap between demand and supply is causing fluctuation in prices which is expected to continue for the next 15-20 days,’’ he said.     “Once rains stop, onion from Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka will arrive. In Nashik district, the arrival of fresh kharif crop will begin by the first or second week of October.”
Egypt onions in city, but prices still high Falguni Banerjee TNN Mumbai: Five tonnes of onions from Egypt arrived in the Agricultural Produce Marketing Committee market in Vashi on Saturday. But this will not have any impact on the steep prices of onions available in the markets as the quantity and price difference with those already available is very less, said trader Ashok Walunj.     “The quality is poorer than Indian produce. A lot depends on consumer taste,” he said.     The Egyptian onions are available in the wholesale market for Rs 47 per kg whereas the average price of onions produced in India has shot up to Rs 50-55 per kg due to the persistent shortage in supply.     Traders fear prices in the wholesale market will continue to be steep for at least another month. When asked if more onions are expected from Egypt, Walunj said, “I wil come to know only on Monday.”     Another trader Rajubhai Gala said, “These onions are not good as it took the importers 30 days to transport them from Egypt to Mumbai. There was a further delay of 10 days at the port. They would have fetched a good price had they arrived early but now they are being sold for less.”     The size is small and colour is blood red, so it won’t be sold much in the retail market. Importers are bound to suffer loss of 20-30%, he added.     Mumbai and the neighbouring districts need 100 trucks of onion every day. However, the supply has reduced to 40-50 trucks following the loss of crops due to heavy rains this year. The situation has led to an unusual onion price hike in the last two months. Most of the crop in Mumbai now is coming from Pune and Nashik.
Inflation at 6-mth high on onions TIMES NEWS NETWORK New Delhi: The rate of inflation accelerated to a sixmonth high in August on the back of spiralling onion prices, posing yet another challenge for RBI ahead of the monetary policy review as it struggles to tame volatility in the foreign exchange market.     Data released on Monday showed the wholesale price index (WPI) rose an annual 6.1% in August, higher than previous month’s 5.79%. The inflation rate in August 2012 stood at 8.01%. Food inflation, which has remained as a pressure point for the past three years, rose sharply during August to a three-year high of 18.18% due to a spurt in prices of onions. Onion prices rose 245% year-onyear in August. Vegetables prices soared 77.18% year-onyear, while cereal prices shot up an annual 14.35% in August. Egg, meat and fish prices remained stubborn, rising an annual 18.86% during the month. The government also revised upwards the data for June to 5.16% from the previously reported 4.86%. High food prices have remained a policy challenge for the embattled government for the past three years. So far, there has been no clear road map to tackle stubborn food prices.     Economists said WPI accelerated in August against expectations for a stabilization. They said they expect RBI to hold rates when it reviews policy later this week given the risks which still exist due to the volatility in rupee. The central bank will also watch the US Fed meeting on September 18 which will have an influence on its stance in the weeks ahead. The sharp slide of the rupee against the dollar in the past few weeks also had an impact in the upward push by making imports costlier.     “Inflation is accelerating and this may continue in the coming months as the weaker rupee pushes up the price of imported goods. WPI inflation may hold in the 6% to 7% range for the remainder of the year,” Glenn Levine, senior economist at Moody’s Analytics said in a note. WPI, CPI divergence seen in food inflation Mumbai/Delhi: Has the government’s statistical office erred with data collection relating to food prices, either by chance or design, for calculating the two inflation indices, Consumer Price Index (CPI) and Wholesale Price Index (WPI) for August?     Else how can someone explain the fact that while food prices as shown in WPI for August exhibit a higher rate of inflation now than a year ago, food inflation as measured by the CPI, also for the month of August, is lower this year?     Normally, you would not expect much of a difference between food inflation numbers calculated from the CPI and WPI. The government does not think so, although the huge discrepancy raises several questions in the mind of the economists, including if there are policy implications for the same. “I don’t think so,” said Pronob Sen, chairman, Statistical Commission, when asked whether there was any error in calculating the food inflation numbers under the two different indices.     Data released on Monday showed that food inflation based on WPI spiked from 9.3% last August to 18.2% on an annualized basis, while the food inflation figure for CPI for August, which was released last week, showed a decline from 12% to 11% over the same period.     One of the plausible explanations could be that the data used in CPI was collected by the government from shops where the prices of food products were artificially controlled to paint a better picture for consumer inflation. “If the price data that was taken was actually from shops where the prices were controlled, that would not accurately reflect the rise in food prices,” said an economist.     Sen said the divergence in the food inflation data in the two indices was largely due to two factors. The first of these is the fact that the CPI does include data from PDS (public distribution system) shops. “In WPI, when you take cereals, only the market price is reflected, while in CPI cereals prices are calculated taking into account the weighted average price between the market price and public distribution system price. The PDS price is constant so it tends to pull down the CPI food inflation,” Sen said.     Economists also pointed out that if the data is true and food prices at the retail level rose more slowly in August than at the wholesale level, then the government’s longstanding theory that the current spate of inflation was mainly because of supply side bottleneck also falls flat. Sen pointed out that the CPI is calculated on prices at the retail level whereas WPI is done using prices at the mandi level. He said retail mark-ups may sometimes be lower, which reflects in lower retail inflation than in the WPI.     In its report on the economy, SBI too pointed out this interesting trend. “What is perplexing is that CPI edged down in August 2013, which in normal circumstances should have increased, given the preponderance of weightage of food items,” wrote Soumya Kanti Ghosh, chief economic advisor, SBI. “This trend of WPI higher than CPI in respect of food items is intriguing and is a trend against normal price behavior and needs to be examined more carefully, as it may have some important policy ramifications,” Ghosh noted.
Lasalgaon onion prices at 5,300/quintal Tushar Pawar TNN Nashik: The average wholesale price of onions at the country’s largest market at the Lasalgaon Agriculture Produce Market Committee (APMC) in Nashik touched a new all-time high of Rs 5,300 a quintal on Monday. This pushed the retail rate to Rs 70 a kg against Rs 55 last week.     The prices have skyrocketed, breaking the previous record of Rs 4,800 a quintal last Friday, largely due to the decline in supply as farmers have not been able bring the stored onions. The minimum and maximum prices at APMC were recorded at Rs 3,000 and Rs 5,300 a quintal. Around 5,000 quintals of onions were auctioned in Lasalgaon on Monday.     Market sources said there is a limited stock of onions stored with farmers in the district. The revival of rains for the past week in the district is the main reason why farmers have not been able bring the stored onions in the market. Moreover, the market was closed for five days due to holidays and weekends from Sept 7 to 15. This led to decline in supply causing sharp price rise in the market.     Changdeo Holkar, director of the National Agriculture Co-operative Marketing Federation of India (Nafed), said, “There is limited stock in the country. The ongoing rains have also stopped the arrival of fresh crop from Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh.’’
TIMES NEWS NETWORK Mumbai: The rupee strengthened by 65 paise to close at 62.85 against the dollar on Monday on hopes of continued easy monetary policy in the US after the hawkish Lawrence Summers dropped out of the race to head the US Federal Reserve. But high inflation numbers continue to keep markets on the edge.     The rupee opened stronger at 63.10, and in intraday trade firmed up to 62.50, regaining the 62 level after a month. At 6.1%, inflation hits 6-month high F ood prices, especially the 350% rise in onion rates, took wholesale inflation to a 6-month high of 6.1% in August.P 19
The Onion Curse Bad policies not only push up food prices, they also affect political fortunes     The uptick of wholesale prices to a six month high of 6.1% in August, largely fuelled by a 244.6% increase in onion prices, is bad news for the economy. Not only does it set back hopes of a rate cut to boost investments in the monetary policy review by the RBI at the end of the week, it also highlights the government’s continuing inability to manage the food economy and rein in volatility of food prices.     Blaming bad weather doesn’t cut much ice. The rising prices of essential food items like rice despite good monsoons are mainly due to the large stocks accumulated to meet the needs of the food security Act. The continuous increase in minimum support prices for rice and wheat by the government has also proved counterproductive as it has discouraged a shift in cropping patterns to vegetables or the diversification of production to livestock, fish and poultry. Consequently, prices of vegetables and high protein foods like milk, eggs, fish and meat have shot up, making them unaffordable to the poor. Inadequate storage facilities and the failure to modernise the food supply chain have also added to the problem.     Curbing volatility in food prices and improving supply would require strong measures by both state and Union governments. States have to reform the Agriculture Produce Marketing Committee Act to allow for contract farming, direct marketing and setting up markets in the private sector. Adequate credit has to be ensured for setting up cold storage chains. The bias against large organised retailers, including foreign chains, has to be dropped. Given their global supply chains, they would have cooled domestic prices by realigning their procurement orders. The government should also shift to direct cash transfers from food subsidies, thus reducing the need to build huge stocks.     It is pertinent that onion prices have remained high for almost a year with no signs of an end to the supply shortage. A kitchen staple across the country, the price of the bulb is not only linked to the health of the economy but also to political fortunes. It will be recalled that soaring onion prices had cost the BJP government in Delhi in the 1998 elections. With assembly polls only a few months away, the onion could come back again to sting political ambitions.
Pawar’s speculation leads to price increase yet again Bella Jaisinghani TNN Mumbai: Retail onion prices soared on Tuesday to another high of Rs65-70 per kg on the back of government inaction – and speculation.     Within hours of Union agriculture minister Sharad Pawar’s comment that onion prices would remain high until October, wholesale rates rose from Rs47 per kg to Rs58 on Monday. The new crop was expected to normalize prices in the first week of September.     Agricultural Produce Market Committee (APMC) sources said the Union agriculture ministry was sympathetic to the farmers’ cause so it favoured good returns for them during the onion harvest.     Ashok Walunj, who heads the onion-potato market at APMC, Vashi, said, “If farmers earn Rs50 per kg, the consumer will have to pay Rs60.” He admitted that “90% of APMC is controlled by the Nationalist Congress Party” but will “not officially comment on whether speculation by the minister is a right move to make”. Walunj agreed that wholesale traders in the onion market of Lasalgaon as well as Vashi take the cue from Pawar’s statements. Walunj did not fail to notice how onion prices rose from Rs50 to Rs70 within a day of the minister’s projection but said that a 20-25% dip was in the offing from Monday.     TOI tried to contact Pawar for his comments without success. The minister caused similar anxiety at least thrice before. Each time, the escalation has been irreversible. Pawar said on December 2, 2009 that the country was facing a 70lakh tonne shortage of sugar that would cause prices to rise, and they did. Until then, sugar sold for Rs18 per kg but rose to Rs32 steadily. It is now available for Rs45.     On September 24, 2009, he predicted a shortfall in rice production, after which retail rates rose. He said a milk shortage would drive up prices on January 20, 2010. Rates, which were stable for years, have been since revised every few months.     The central and state agriculture ministries denied wholesalers are hoarding onions or that a crackdown was necessary.
Centre blames hoarders for onion price rise Dipak Kumar Dash TNN New Delhi: Onion prices have again hit the roof in Mumbai, Delhi and other major cities after stabilizing briefly in August, leading the Centre to suggest that traders and speculators might be “artificially” increasing the prices. It has sought to know whether a seasonal shortage in supplies is being exploited.     “The governments of Delhi and Chandigarh were asked to look into the possibility of traders and speculators creating an artificial price increase to take advantage of the seasonal shortage,” a consumer affairs department status report on onions said.     Food and consumer affairs minister K V Thomas on Tuesday said the Centre had asked onion producing states like Maharashtra to crack down on hoarders. The consumer affairs ministry has also asked all other states to ensure the availability of the politically-sensitive commodity.     “Maharashtra was requested to ensure a steady supply from stocks into the market and intimate if there is any blockage in the supply chain that causes prices to rise,” the consumer affairs department status note said.     The status of arrivals of onion at Lasalgaon shows the supply dipped to 3,000 quintals on Monday against 6,000 quintals on September 6. No relief from artificial crunch Wholesale Onion Prices Rise By 1K Per Quintal In Mumbai New Delhi: Wholesale onion prices have increased from Rs 4,140 per quintal to Rs 5,300. In Mumbai, the wholesale price increased by Rs 1,000 per quintal during this period and in Delhi the increase was Rs 800. Wholesale price reduced only in Bangalore where arrival increased by almost 300%.     Sources said that since the traders are aware that the artificial shortage will continue for some more time, they are trying to make the most of the situation. Going by trends, domestic onion prices tend to peak during September to November and fall in January-March every year.     “We have inputs that prices quoted in Pune have become the benchmark for other markets,” said a senior official. He added a crackdown on hoarders and increasing the minimum export price (MEP) further can help arrest the crisis.     The man-made aspect of the onion crisis highlights the inability of governments to check hoarding and ensure steady arrival of vegetables in wholesale markets and their further distribution through retail chains.     The Centre has confirmed concerns (reported by TOI on August 17) that traders in Maharashtra’s onion hub of Nashik are also deliberately releasing stocks – only 1.5 lakh tonnes less than last year -- at a slow pace to manipulate prices.     The note said the monthend retail and wholesale onion prices at majority of centres in July and August showed a “sharp” increase while prices had softened in mandis in Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh where early kharif onion is arriving.     Fixing MEP at $650 per tonne onion in August has reduced exports to only 0.29 lakh tonnes last month against 1.56 lakh tonnes the corresponding period last year.     The onion crisis is likely to be discussed at a meeting of the committee of secretaries (CoS) headed by the cabinet secretary on Thursday, sources said. Adding to the official alarm in Delhi is a 50% dip in arrivals at most major mandis in the past 10 days. After plateauing briefly in August, onion prices have again hit the roof in Delhi, Mumbai, Lucknow, Nagpur, Jaipur and Guwahati.
J U G U L A R V E I N Perfect PM The current occupant of the gaddi will long be remembered for a unique quality Jug Suraiya Some years ago an American entrepreneur invented the perfect pet for people who were too busy to keep regular pets which need a lot of looking after: he invented the pet rock. Unlike other pets, your pet rock did not need to be taken for walks, or be given food, or get taken to the vet. Your pet rock just sat there, totally immobile and completely silent.     India went one better than inventing a pet that was totally immobile and 100% silent: it invented a PM who was totally immobile and 100% silent. Taking care of India’s democracy – the largest and arguably the most exuberant in the world – is rather like having to take care of a very lovable and very large pet dog. Having such a pet is a very rewarding experience – because you love your pet and you know that your pet loves you equally in reciprocal measure – but it can also be quite exhausting at times.     The pet called democracy has to be taken out on regular exercises called elections. It has to be fed a steady diet of debate, in return for which it will perform tricks like framing legislation and providing good governance. Yes, there’s little doubt about it: democracy – particularly the boisterous variety that is Indian democracy – can be a very demanding and highmaintenance pet to look after. All that constant vigilance and looking after that it requires can prove extremely tiring, particularly after a hard day’s work in Parliament.     So with its infinite genius for jugaad, India invented a PM who – like the American entrepreneur’s pet rock – just sat there and said and did absolutely nothing as a relaxing antidote to the hurly-burly and the hal-chal, the gol-mal and the hangama of our overly-energetic and all too vibrant democracy. Looking after a frisky, unpredictable democracy getting you all hot and bothered and tense and stressed out? Take a chill pill. Take a tip from a PM who, like the pet rock, has mastered the art of total inaction.     There was corruption. There were scams. There was Adarshgate, Spectrumgate, Coalgate and Vadragate. There were so many ‘gates’ that India began to look like a sports stadium with its multiple entrances and exits. Or like a circus arena which has to have many openings for all the clowns and jokers and performing animals to go in and out from. The PM sat and watched the circus and, pet rock-like, remained unmoved. The economy did a nosedive; the rupee went into free fall, without benefit of parachute or safety net. The PM remained unmoved. Investors packed up their portfolios and left the country in droves. The PM remained unmoved. The price of onions went up to the price of gold, and no one knew what the price of gold was because it had so many zeroes that by the time you’d counted them all several more had been added to the total. The PM remained unmoved. Nobody seemed to know whether the country was coming or going, and if it was going, where it was going, and why. The PM remained unmoved.     That’s why, like the pet rock, the PM will go down in the history books as the only PM truly to deserve the title of PM: Perpetually Motionless.     jug.suraiya@timesgroup.com     http://blogs.timesofindia.indiatimes.com/jugglebandhi/ 
Onion prices to come down in 2-3 weeks: Pawar TIMES NEWS NETWORK New Delhi: There seems to be little impact on the Centre’s advisory to states to crack down on onion hoarders and ease the spiraling kitchen staple’s prices.     This week onion prices increased by Rs 5-20 per kg in cities like Delhi, Agra, Mumbai, Bangalore, Nagpur, Patna and Ahmedabad. Tomato prices, too, have gone up by Rs 10 in Bangalore, Delhi, Lucknow and Jodhpur.     Meanwhile, in a bid to ease the spiraling prices, the Centre on Thursday notified revised minimum export price (MEP) for onion at $900 per tonne to stop export of the commodity.     Agriculture minister Sharad Pawar also said on Thursday that onion prices would come down in the next two-three weeks in view of arrival of fresh produce from Maharashtra and other states. He said the supplies are likely to improve as small quantities of imported onions have arrived, and outward shipments have slowed after a minimum export price was re-imposed.     “After talking to farmers and traders, my own assessment is that arrival of new kharif crop will increase substantially in next twothree weeks and prices will come down,” Pawar told a news agency. He said that farmers were holding stock in Maharashtra, which has a better storage capacity, in anticipation of better prices. However, state governments have been directed to take action against hoarders, he added.     Later in the day, food and consumer affairs minister K V Thomas ruled out declaring onion as an essential commodity. In 2004, it was deleted from the list covered under the Essential Commodities Act following satisfactory production and stable price trend. The Act was enacted to ensure easy availability of essential commodities to consumers and to protect them from exploitation by unscrupulous traders.
In 9 years of UPA rule, food prices shot up by 157% Between ’04 & ’13, Cost Of Veggies Rose By 350%, Fruits By 95% Subodh Varma TIG     If you were to ask any random aam aadmi anywhere in India what is the single biggest failing of the UPA, the answer would be – price rise. This is so because the most important items of family spending – food items – have relentlessly risen for the past several years despite repeated promises to bring them down by the economic mandarins and policy wonks that run the country’s economy. Poorer families have had to stop eating various foods in order to save crumbling family budgets.     Between 2004 and 2013 food prices in general rose by 157%. But when you get into the nuts and bolts the real pain becomes starkly clear. India is the second largest producer of vegetables in the world. Yet chronic supply shortages coupled with serial hoarding has led vegetable prices to shoot up by a deadly 350% in that period.     Onion prices have increased by an incredible 521% since 2004. And it’s not a smooth even rise. There were times when onion prices doubled, even tripled within weeks and then subsided after a few weeks of rampage. This happened in the winter of 2010-11. And it is happening again now with onion prices touching Rs 70-80 levels in most parts of the country.     This has happened with other key staples also like potatoes. In the second half of 2009 potato prices zoomed up by almost 100% and it was only in January 2010 that the levels came down. Other vegetables have followed their own mad ways – brinjal for instance is 311% costlier now than in 2004, and prices of the lowly cabbage have risen by a jaw dropping 714%. Various vegetable prices are in fact at all time highs.     The hike in vegetable prices hit poorer families especially hard because earlier, starting 2006, another staple of families had been knocked off thalis. This was pulses, the single biggest source of protein in largely vegetarian India. Their prices rose steadily 2005 onwards and by 2010 they had more than doubled. Then again they increased in 2012 and reached an all time high in September last year. There has been a slight decline since then but even so prices are 123% higher than 2004.     What about other key food items? Milk prices have increased by 119%. Egg prices have gone up by 124%. Spices and condiments have increased by 119%. Sugar has increased by 106%. Even salt, an essential of most cooked food has increased by 85% in the past decade.     Prices of the two staple cereals of India, rice and wheat, have increased by 137% and 117%, respectively. Remember, India has seen record harvests for a series of years and except for 2004 and 2009, monsoons have been good generally. So mass produced crops like wheat and rice which demand high water inputs have not been subject to the usual weather depression.     Even fruit prices have increased by 95% despite bumper crops of many popular fruits like bananas, mangoes, oranges and papaya.     These are the wholesale prices. What the aam aadmi gets at the local shop has more jacked up prices. But if the wholesale prices have risen so dramatically, imagine the real prices you pay for.     Strangely, principal political parties gearing up for elections next year seem to be indifferent to the continuing decimation of family budgets. It will be a very angry voter that they will face at the hustings.
Onions from Egypt, Pak fail to cool 80 a kg prices, Mumbaikars blame hoarders Bella Jaisinghani & U K Nambiar TNN Mumbai: The Centre’s kneejerk move to import onions from Egypt, Afghanistan and now Pakistan has had no impact on retail prices that hit the season’s high of Rs 80 a kg on Thursday.     Rather than procure tasteless, yellow onions from neighbouring countries at a premium, Mumbaikars wish the government would crack down on hoarders and profiteers who take cues from politicians’ statements and hold stocks.     “The arrival of small quantities of onions from Egypt and Afghanistan in Navi Mumbai or Amritsar neither mitigates the woes of consumers nor poses a threat to hoarders. These bulbs are bland and soft, far inferior to the red Nashik variety. Yet people have to pay Rs 60 a kg for them. It is surprising to see the state seek international remedies for the homegrown scourge of hoarding. Why doesn’t it force farmers and wholesalers to release stocks?” asked R Ganasekar, a resident of Navi Mumbai.     Twenty-one truckloads of Pakistani onions reached the market on Thursday, soon after 45 vehicles had arrived from Hubli, Karnataka. The wholesale rate in Vashi APMC was Rs 45 for new onion and Rs 60 for the preferred old variety.     Retail rates stood at Rs 70-80 a kg across Mumbai and Thane. “Each vendor claims his produce is of the best quality so it costs more. There is no visible shortage or rationing but prices are high,” said Shareen Amin of Jogeshwari, where the bulb was priced at Rs 75 on Thursday over Rs 68 on Tuesday.     Retailers allege that wholesalers in APMC are mixing inferior onions while charging for premium quality produce. “Local distributors like us are shown samples of best produce for a high price, say, Rs 65-70 a kg. Once we place an order, though, low grade onions are mixed with it before our very eyes. We are not allowed to choose. If we protest, they start emptying the sacks asking us to take it or leave it,” said a retailer from Bandra.     He alleged bulk buyers must pay a fee to get the consignment weighed, Rs 5 for the first bag and Rs 10 for every sack that follows. This additional cost is passed on to the consumer.     APMC director Ashok Walunj, though, said this fee is levied by mathadi workers as part of the loading process. “Do you not pay the porter at the railway station to carry luggage? Doesn’t he weigh it in order to determine the fee?”     Walunj said wholesale rates would drop to Rs 40-42 with the arrival of around 25-30 tonne on Friday. “We convened a meeting of the 500-odd traders at APMC and advised them to source from Karnataka until the Lasalgaon crop comes,” he said. TIMES VIEW:The public has seen through these cheap gimmicks. Mumbaikars are not really interested in knowing the origin of the onions in the market; they would rather buy them at a lower, more reasonable price. The government should do something to bring down the retail price instead of indulging in this tokenism.
Onion hits 80 a kg, tomato dearer at 55 TIMES NEWS NETWORK     The Centre’s knee-jerk move to import onions from Egypt, Afghanistan and now Pakistan has had no impact on retail prices that hit the season’s high of Rs 80 per kg in Mumbai on Thursday. To add to the consumer’s woes, tomato prices have gone up from Rs 37 per kg on September 16 to Rs 55 on Thursday.     Union agriculture minister Sharad Pawar has said that prices will ease in the next two-three weeks as fresh supplies arrive from Maharashtra and other states. P 2, 15 
Rajan resists govt pressure on rates Does A Subba: Like Predecessor, Inflation Remains New Guv’s Key Worry On Sept 4, when he took charge at RBI, Raghuram Rajan said, “Some of the actions I take will not be popular. The governorship of the central bank is not meant to win one votes or Facebook ‘likes’. But I hope to do the right thing, no matter what the criticism…” On Friday, he took the surprising, and unpopular, decision to hike the key policy rate, sending the rupee and the sensex skidding Surojit Gupta TNN New Delhi: A large chunk of RBI’s monetary policy statement on Friday sounded familiar. For now, RBI governor Raghruram Rajan has decided to keep inflation as the centrepiece of his policy — the theme his predecessor had adopted despite difference in points of view with the finance ministry over interest rates.     Rajan used his maiden policy review to caution about the inflationary pressures present in the economy. While a large section of the financial market and economists had expected Rajan to hold rates, the former IMF chief economist demonstrated that he is ready to undertake unpopular steps to place the economy on a firm footing. His predecessor Duvvuri Subbarao had articulated the problem of stubborn inflation in several of his policy statements. He had also resisted strong pressure from North Block to reduce rates, highlighting price pressure threats. On Friday, Rajan might have disappointed his former colleagues in North Block — by raising the repo rate.     Finance minister P Chidambaram has been canvassing for enlarging the central bank’s mandate. “The mandate of price stability must be seen as part of the larger mandate and the larger mandate is growth and employment,” he had said in Rajya Sabha last month. But Rajan flagged the pressing problem of inflation, stating that the wholesale price inflation would be higher than the initial projection. “However, the current assessment is that in the absence of an appropriate policy response, WPI inflation will be higher than initially projected over the rest of the year,” the RBI policy statement said.     Inflation has remained a stubborn problem for the government and RBI. Food prices have spiralled and onion prices have become unaffordable for a large section of society. Latest data shows food prices rose 18% year-on-year, while retail inflation has hovered around double digits for the past one year.     An occasional dip in the inflation numbers have often prompted policymakers to predict that the price pressure would ease as supplies rise. But that has not happened. Even now policymakers are expecting that a bumper harvest on the back of a robust monsoon will help ease food price pressures. But Rajan is willing to wait for that evidence to emerge without taking any risks.     “Although better prospects of a robust kharif harvest will lead to some moderation in CPI inflation, there is no room for complacency,” the policy statement said. And, he made his intention clear on inflation. “You always have to balance the state of the economy with your fight against inflation. What I would like to see is that we achieve, certainly, the RBI’s target of trying to bring WPI inflation below 5%. We want to fight against inflation and we’ll bring inflation down.”
Onion prices fall by 1,100/quintal in Lasalgaon Tushar Pawar TNN Nashik:The average wholesale onion prices at the Lasalgaon Agriculture Produce Market Committee — the country’s largest onion market — dropped by Rs 1,100 to Rs 4,350 per quintal on Friday.     The average wholesale prices are expected to decline by up to Rs 2,500/quintal or even more by next week due to arrival of fresh kharif crop in states such as Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka and imports from Egypt, China and Afghanistan. Across Nashik’s retail markets, onions were sold in the range of Rs 45-50 per kg on Friday as against Rs 70/kg on Thursday.
Local stock eases wholesale prices     Hardy onions from Karnataka have finally reduced wholesale prices, something the Egyptian and Pakistani bulbs failed to do. Retail prices are unaffected.     APMC director Ashok Walunj said, “Today 90 trucks of onion arrived from Belgaum. Now wholesale rates have fallen to Rs 35-40 from Rs 50-55.” Wholesale dealer Mahadeo Raut agreed that prices were cooling with new arrivals from Karnataka and Ahmednagar. “Varieties are available for Rs 20-40 in the wholesale market. Old onions from Nashik are available at Rs 53-55.”     On Friday, 175 bags of unusually large onions from China arrived at Vashi APMC. Walunj said there were no takers for the ornamental bulbs being sold at the same price. U K Nambiar | TNN
State denies onion hoarding by farmers, sniffs retail cartel Bella Jaisinghani TNN Mumbai: State agriculture minister Radhakrishna Vikhe-Patil said on Friday that his government was exploring if a retailers’ cartel was responsible for artificially hiking vegetable prices.     He denied that farmers or wholesale traders were holding stocks and cashing in on a minor, seasonal shortage.     The state government runs 115-odd fair price shops that sell vegetables for half the market rate at Rs 30-40 a kg. This competitionstyle intervention, though, has not affected neighbourhood retailers who continue to charge Rs 60-80 even though they procure from the same source — APMC Vashi.     Vikhe-Patil said, “We believe the retail cartel is responsible for inflated rates since they are charging much more than wholesale prices. Hoarding by farmers or wholesalers is not possible as they have no onion stock to hold. Merely 34,000 acres of onion farms were cultivated this year against the yearly 60,000 acres. Yet, our centres are now selling the bulb for Rs 40 for grade two quality and Rs 56 for best quality.”     The cheaper rates remain on paper, though. Retail chains that are part of the government scheme are unable to keep pace with its ideals. On Thursday and Friday, Sahakari Bhandar outlets sold onion at Rs 69 against the declared rate of Rs 40 and Rs 56. “We try and stick to official rates as far as other vegetables go but onions are a different game altogether,” said an employee of the Juhu outlet.     Apna Bazar was beset by empty stocks with seven retailers reporting that the bulb had either sold out or did not arrive on Friday. One recommended a counter run by his private supplier who was selling “better quality” onions for Rs 73 at the same site.     Minister Vikhe-Patil said the situation would improve once the Goregaon farmers' hub begins functioning in three months. “We will have 200-odd vehicles despatching fresh produce to all parts of the city. That will drive fear into retail cartels,” he said.
Pricier oil, eggs, milk add to common man’s onion tears Food Inflation At 3-Yr High In Aug As Kitchen Essentials Increasingly Get Out Of Reach, Citizens Raise The Pitch For Solutions Bella Jaisinghani TNN     Unrealistic prices of onions and other vegetables are not the only source of anxiety for families struggling with their monthly budgets. In a market free of any government control, the price of almost every food item, be it edible oil, spices, eggs, milk, bread or biscuits, continues on an unchecked spiral. Standardized weights and measures are rigged as well.     The average Mumbaikar is living the nightmare fuelled by food inflation which accelerated to a three-year peak of 18.18% in August, driving overall inflation to a higher-than-expected 6.1%.     From the hole-in-the-wall oil depot in Colaba market to the fancy supermarket in Kandivli, the only question from anxious customers is why the price of edible oil is spiralling with the arrival of every batch of fresh stock.     “For years, one premium brand of sunflower oil was stable at Rs 70 per litre. Since 2009, when this unending spiral of inflation began, it has steadily risen by a few rupees every month and now costs Rs 170 per litre. Each new batch sees a markup in rates,” says Charkop resident Shefali Karnik.     Chellaram Chowdhury, who owns Colaba Oil and Tea Mart, says he, too, can hardly keep pace with revised rates. “Most people in my locality purchase palmolein whose price has risen by Rs 6 per litre this month, from Rs 62 to Rs 68. In fact, the 15-litre pack of medium quality sunflower oil is pricier by Rs 100 — this batch is now priced at Rs 1,410 over Rs 1,320 merely 10 days ago.”     Spices have come to cost the earth, says Marie Mendonca who lives at Pali Mala, Bandra. “I prepare East Indian bottle masala to sell, so I notice how the cost of 28 ingredients, including red chillies, pepper, cloves, cinnamon, cardamom and nutmeg, is rising by the day,” she says, leafing through a bundle of bills dating back to 2011.     Low-income households that settled for akoori over vegetables find this exit route blocked as well. Eggs had seldom cost more than Rs 44-48 a dozen but over the past two months Rs 50-54 is the new mean. It hit Rs 58 in August.     Milk prices are now revised every few weeks. “Biscuit and chips manufacturers do not raise prices but they are reducing quantity instead,” says Nilesh Amane, father of a five-year-old.
‘Traders in Pakistan gain from onion crisis’ Bella Jaisinghani & U K Nambiar TNN Mumbai:A day after state agriculture minister Radhakrishna Vikhe-Patil blamed retail cartels for inflating onion prices, small vendors questioned the implicit “free passage” being granted to rich wholesale traders in an election year.     Ninety per cent of the wholesale trade in the APMCs is controlled by the NCP, which is part of the ruling Democratic Front (DF) combine. Meanwhile, published reports from Pakistan say that the Indian onion crisis is proving a “goldmine” for Pakistani growers.     Defending retailers, Kandivli shopkeeper M Gala said, “The wholesale rate of onion itself is Rs 55-60 and we are selling for Rs 70-80. The government is threatening to punish us but is allowing rich farmers and wholesalers to hoard and profiteer because they will prove helpful in an election year. Soon after Union agriculture minister Sharad Pawar said prices would remain unchanged till October owing to shortage, state minister Vikhe-Patil is denying that hoarding is taking place at all. These are signals to powerful lobbies.”     APMCs tend to manipulate rates by purchasing a few kilos of onion for Rs 55-60 per kg and then announcing the day’s rate as Rs 6,000 per quintal. “The bulk of the consignment may have been purchased for Rs 20-25. But consumers end up paying by this highest yardstick irrespective of quality or size,” said a government representative. News reports from Pakistan quote export association chief Waheed Ahmed as saying that the Indian onion crisis is a “goldmine” for Pakistani farmers. Onions fetch Rs 18-25 per kg in the local market but India is procuring at a rate of Rs 40-45 per kg. Another association chief Haji Shahjehan admitted that these onions cannot be termed as “good exportable quality”. Yet the Centre is purchasing hundreds of tonnes at apremium of Rs 20-25 per kg, although these bland onions do not find takers and fail to reduce prices as well.     NAFED chairman Bijender Singh said prices in Lasalgaon dropped by Rs 10 on Saturday. Eighty-two truckloads of onion arrived in Vashi APMC but rates remained unchanged.
Onions down to 3,700/quintal in Lasalgaon Tushar Pawar TNN Nashik: For the first time in over a month, the average onion prices declined at the country’s largest wholesale market at Lasalgaon Agriculture Produce Market Committee on Tuesday. The prices dropped by 13%, from Rs 4,250 a quintal on Monday to Rs 3,700 a quintal on Tuesday, due to reduced demand from other domestic markets.     There is a drop in demand from other domestic markets in the country as fresh Kharif crop has reached these markets. Market sources said that the trend of onion prices has reversed now and the average wholesale prices of onions are expected to reduce to the range of Rs 1,500 to Rs 2,000 a quintal by mid-October.
THE LOCAL Restaurant Review Glocal (Global and local food) You gotta go! The brand new The Local at Fort is already packed. Ooof! ho! But you can’t get in without a password. So is it snooty? No way! It’s a relaxed, very casual hangout and if you love music, VFM booze, and spicy, robust food then this is your adda. ENTRY MANGTA HAI I love my work as food critic coz many times, it morphs into that of a sleuth. Since I never ever go announced, there was no way I could reveal my name or approach the owners AD Singh or Meldan DCunha for a password. Having heard amazing things on the grapevine, I was determined to find a way in. Got to know that there was a ‘No password needed’ policy on Sundays and a jam session to a live band. Voila! Got in. And having once got in, now I have access to the weekly password. I am sharing this week’s with you (335500 password valid from Oct 3 to 8). After this you have to log on to their social networking page . HANG LOOSE AMBIENCE Deliberately grungy look in the small, dimly-lit, split-level room, industrial unfinished wood, exposed water pipes, Banksy’s street art splattered all over. Clement D Silva and Sabina Singh add on a barber’s chair and a tap with running water in a basin and nudge in even more funky features. Love it! FOOD KA MOOD Mop up with handkerchief thin neer dosa, the lustily spiced Srilankan beef with slivers of onions and capsicum, robustly spicy, coconut infused railway mutton delights. Chorizo pao, Goan chilly fry... all made to sour, spicy notes. Veggies go for the stuffed mushroom with onion rings. No dish costs more than 300. Average meal for two, 1,200. MINUS POINTS It can get noisy (but surely, you didn’t come here for a quiet conversation) and uncomfy. Soggy bacon fries (not enough bacon), jalapeno cheese croquettes have no jalapeno, scotch eggs too dry. The Goan fare is far better than the Continental. BOOZE AND MUSIC What is truly ‘local’ about the bar is the famous Mumbai quarter system. Kachi kairi, imli ki nasha and such cocktails and most of all, competitively priced booze here. Dj Marciano plays retro and on Sunday, the lively Flypside band (please see the photo) is a must to dance to. MY POINT Ignore cranky cribbers (“The Local tries too hard to be cool”). Locate the non-descript door behind the bus stop opposite the University. Having logged on to their social networking page, key in the password onto a computer at the entrance. The chatpata food is not gourmet, but it’s tasty, the all-day Sunday jam session, the casual, affordable hang loose vibe makes The Local a much needed, refreshing new arrival. Whoopeee! GIFT A BLESSING This is it. Here’s the sweetest gift to give this Diwali. Each delicious luxury chocolate box that you buy goes towards the continuing employment of differently abled girls by the NGO Om Creations. It’s a globally pioneering project because it doesn’t just stop at taking care of these girls but gives them a sense of self-worth and an entrepreneur’s stipend too. Dr Radhike Khanna’s model is being replicated the world over. All this is done under the dedicated trustee and catering head Ranjana Mahadevia’s brilliant tutelage of using the finest chocolate, kept at the perfect temperatures, under quality hygiene conditions. From plain to flavoured to signature blends dark and white date chocolates with almond fillings, Om chocolates are in huge demand. Must-try the toasted almond rocks. Packed in handsome fliptop, magnetic boxes, (starting price, 250 gms for 280) these luxurious, smooth chocolates and dates filled with almonds leave a superb taste in the mouth and a warm-happy feeling in the heart. P.S. Over the years, I’ve been saluting the pathbreaking and delicious work of this NGO. I shot this photo amidst the paintings and sculptures made by the talented girls of the same NGO. Contact: Call Kiran at 98194 70544 to place orders. MORE HAPPY NEWS I’m so happy to hear from you at rashmiudaysingh2014@gmail.com and @rashmiudaysingh, and thanks to that I’m plugged into all that’s new and yummy. Attend a Free Open House on October 6 to participate in demos and sample the menu of APB Cook Studio’s upcoming festival celebrating Kitchen Secrets From Around the World. Highlights include a demo by Rushina Munshaw Ghildiyal of recipes from her new course ‘No Reservations – My Secrets to Cooking Fabulously!’ Contact: www.apbcookstudio.com, 4215 2799 or email info@apbcookstudio.com.
Fresh stock of onions fails to bring cheer APMC’s Rigid Stand On Essentials Forces Citizens To Steal A March On Traders ‘Paying More Will Benefit Farmers’ Bella Jaisinghani TNN Mumbai: The new onion crop has arrived but middlemen brazenly say they will not allow prices to normalize. The Vashi wholesale market director says buyers should not expect onion prices to reduce to the normal average of Rs 15 per kg in the near future.     Ashok Walunj, director of the onion-potato market at APMC, Vashi, told TOI: “The new crop has arrived. But why should we reduce onion prices? Let customers pay Rs 40 per kg so that farmers benefit. Retail rates will not fall below Rs 35-40 per kg in the near future.”     Asked if farmers were indeed making profits at this time, he said, “They are not profiteering. Let’s say they are not making losses.” When asked how long consumers would have to continue paying an exorbitant Rs 55-60 for this essential item, Walunj repeated what he and the government have been saying since August, “15 days”.     Mumbaikars now seem convinced the massive profits from onion will fund political parties at the upcoming general election. Neela Shevade, a retired banker from Dahisar, says Walunj’s statement confirms what the public has known all along. “I am certain this money will fund the political parties’ election campaign. Each time an election nears, people are forced to pay high prices for petrol and onion. Why did the government make the pretence of importing onions from Egypt, Afghanistan and Pakistan if it does not intend to provide relief?” YO-YO RATES     PER KG Normal average | 15 Lowest price in 2013 | 20 (January) Highest rate in 2013 | 80 (September) Current price | 55-60 TIMES VIEW: Consumers have no problem with farmers making their share of profit; the onion farmer is also a consumer when it comes to other essentials. But the relevant question here is how much of profit farmers make. The problem crops up when the middleman and the trader start profiteering (as opposed to making a profit), which seems to be the case here.
ALMs begin hawking veggies after prices soar Some Offer Free Home Delivery Linah Baliga TNN Mumbai:Advanced locality management (ALM) members have taken civic activism to a new level by selling vegetables at reasonable rates. Affected by the price rise, some ALM members have involved themselves in introducing the concept of “fair price market shops” in their neighbourhood.     ALM members are taking turns to sit at counters and sell vegetables at government rates. At fair price shops, onions are sold at Rs 40 per kg. In Vile Parle, ALM members work in shifts to vend vegetables.     Dinkar Gandhi, member of Bapubhai Vasi Road ALM, said their shop sells 900 kg of vegetables from 4pm to 8.30pm daily.     “What we get is quality and accuracy in weight as they use an electronic machine. Also, the produce is cheaper than the market rate. The vegetables are fresh,” said homemaker Rajal Kanani.     Members have their job cut out; while one monitors the weighing machine, the other works as a cashier.     The ALM also pays “helpers” for providing free home deliveries, much to the chagrin of local vendors. “We receive a copy of the price list from the government daily. People call us bhaajiwallas in jest. The fresh produce comes in government vans and at night they report to an inspector, who takes stock of the vegetables sold,” said Behram Singaporia, member of Dadabhai Road ALM.     Local MLA Krishna Hegde foots the cost of vans for home delivery and shop maintenance.     “We have started three centres to sell vegetables in my constituency. The vegetables available through this government scheme is almost 35% cheaper than the market prices,” said Hegde. In upscale Bandra too there is a growing demand for the “fair price vegetable shops”.     Friday markets operate in St Sebastian Colony (behind Mehboob Studio), next to Ranwar Grounds and near Nirmala Colony (Mount Mary). “Our local MLC Ashish Shelar started this concept. My wife bought tomatoes for Rs 24 per kg instead of Rs 40,” said Deryk Talker of Wake Up Bandra. Shiv Sena legislator Subhash Desai on Saturday inaugurated two fair price vegetable centres in Goregaon, at Aarey Road Gogatewadi and near Jawahar Nagar Hall.
Buy an Anjolie Ela Menon for just 10k Sachin Sharma TNN Vadodara: It is a jaw-dropping opportunity for art collectors. A unique exhibition in Vadodara is selling some works of Anjolie Ela Menon for Rs 10,000 — small change for the work of an artist who commands lakhs in the international market. And there are even more surprises on offer.     If you are ready to buy a portfolio of some young and upcoming artists coupled with that of masters such as Jyoti Bhatt, Atul Dodiya, Bhupen Khakhar, Sankho Chaudhury and Ghulam Mohammed Sheikh, you can get one for anywhere between Rs 15,000 and Rs 20,000.     The exhibition has been organized to help young artists survive the sharp decline in the art market. “How can people buy art when they cannot afford onions?” Bhatt said.     The organizers are hoping the big names and the low prices will draw in crowds at the exhibition — titled ‘Mandi’ — that got under way on Saturday.     “I know of exhibitions and auctions where more than half of the works are not sold as people find them unaffordable,” said Hitesh Rana of Sarjan, who organized the exhibition that displays about 500 works by 160 artists.     “I explained my plan to well-known artists and they readily agreed to join hands. To my surprise, most gave 13-by-11 inch works, which was the upper limit for the exhibition.”
EXCEPTION HERE
Wholesale onion prices up 19% over 1 working day Tushar Pawar & Bella Jaisinghani TNN Nashik/Mumbai: Another round of onion woes is in store for Mumbaikars. On Monday, the average wholesale price of onions at the Lasalgaon APMC hit a high of Rs 5,501 per quintal (Rs 55 per kg) owing to a "decline in supply". This is a Rs 900, or 19.16%, rise over the previous working day, which was Friday. Market sources attributed the escalation to short supply: daily arrivals of 8,000 quintals a month ago had reduced to 500 quintals on Monday.     Simultaneously, word arrived that inflation was at a seven-month high of 6.46% during September. It confirmed the burden the taxpaying citizen continues to shoulder each day. Women making purchases for Navratri last Saturday were shocked to see neighbourhood vendors quote Rs 50 a dozen for the humble banana, Rs 10 more than the average rate of Rs 40.     Despite a bountiful monsoon that would be the envy of other agrarian economies, consumers are yet to see any relief in the price of essentials. Since the beginning of the year, common vegetables, including cauliflower, cluster beans and lady’s finger, have sold for Rs 60-80.     Three months since the onion pangs first surfaced in August, the bulb remains a sore point with voters across the nation. "We are still paying Rs 55-60 per kg. Middlemen are squeezing us for profit since 90 days ago, enough to grow two onion crop cycles," said Neela Shevade, a retired banker from Dahisar.     The official rate of onion at the Maharashtra government’s fair price shops was Rs 52 on Monday, offering little consolation.
Soaring veggie prices push inflation to a 7-month high Onion Costs Quadrupled In A Year TIMES NEWS NETWORK New Delhi: Inflation accelerated to a seven-month high in September driven by sharp spikes in onion and vegetable prices, official data released on Monday showed. This may prompt the RBI to persist with its tight monetary policy and add to the political pressures facing the UPA as it heads into crucial elections.     The wholesale price index rose an annual 6.46% in September, higher than the previous month’s 6.10%. The rate stood at 8.07% during the corresponding month of the previous year.     Onion prices more than quadrupled, rising 323% year-onyear. Other vegetables did not quite reach these astronomical levels, but as a group their prices nearly doubled, up by 90% year-on-year in September.     Overall food inflation hovered around the 18% mark in September as supply pressures continued.     Food inflation as measured by the consumer price index is hovering around the double-digit mark, making it tough for the RBI to ease interest rates. Food prices have stayed high for three years, upsetting household budgets. In Lasalgaon mkt, onion 20% dearer M umbaikars are unlikely to get a breather from rising onion prices anytime soon, report Tushar Pawar & Bella Jaisinghani. The average wholesale price of onions at Lasalgaon APMC, Asia’s biggest market for the bulb, shot up to a high of Rs 5,501 per quintal (Rs 55.01/ kg) on Monday, a near-20% rise over Friday’s rate. Market sources blamed the hike on a “decline in supply”. They said onion arrivals on Monday had come down to 500 quintals from the usual 8,000 quintals. It’s not just the onion that’s hurting people, veggies like cauliflower, beans and lady’s finger too are pinching hard at Rs 60-80/kg. P 3 ‘Expect another repo rate hike this month’     The unease over high food prices is likely to be a key election issue in the upcoming state polls and the general elections in 2014. Some of the increase in vegetable prices could be attributed to seasonal fluctuations, but strained supplies have kept overall food prices high. While the government has repeatedly said it is trying to shore up supplies, the situation on the price front remains grim.     High inflation has also acted as a dampener on any moves by the RBI to slash interest rates to boost flagging economic growth, further adding to the potentially adverse political fallout of the economic situation on the ruling coalition.     Separate data showed retail inflation quickened to 9.84% in September from the previous month’s 9.52%. Food and beverages inflation, according to the consumer price index, rose 11.44% on an annual basis during the month. The corresponding provisional inflation rates for rural and urban areas for September 2013 were 9.71% and 9.93% respectively. Retail inflation has hovered around the double-digit mark for several months adding to the pressure of households in rural and urban areas.     The government also revised upwards the data for July to 5.85% from the previously reported 5.79%. Some economists said the RBI may raise interest rates again in its upcoming policy review in the face of inflationary pressures confronting the economy. “The pickup in inflation is testament to the lingering inflation risks and underscores the need for the RBI to keep its inflation guards up,” said Leif Esekesen, chief economist India & Asean at HSBC.     “As for the RBI, today’s numbers suggest that it has to continue to cater inflation risks. There is, consequently, a good chance that the RBI will deliver another repo rate hike at the October monetary policy meeting,” Eskesen said. He said WPI inflation rose more than expected due to higher food and core inflation and added that food inflation should eventually ease as supply improves.     Stubborn inflation has remained a policy challenge for the government and has made it difficult for the central bank to take measures to boost growth. Raghuram Rajan, who took over as the new RBI governor in September, surprised markets as he raised the repo rate to 7.5% to calm inflationary pressures. The central bank has consistently cautioned about the stubborn price pressures present in the economy and has resisted calls to ease rates to boost growth.
Onion, potato prices on an upward spiral again Poor Supply To Blame, Say Traders B B Nayak TNN Mumbai: Wholesale prices of vegetables, especially essential staples like onion and potato, increased sharply at the Agriculture Produce Market Committee (APMC) complex in Navi Mumbai on Tuesday.     While onions sold for Rs 5,300 per quintal at the wholesale market on Monday, prices went up to Rs 5,500 on Tuesday. Similarly, potato prices shot up from Monday’s Rs 1,200 per quintal to Rs 1,500 per quintal. The sharp hike came just after the festival of Navratri and a day ahead of Bakri Eid.     “Despite the inflation, we still get Rs 12-15 per kg of onions when we sell to local traders,” said Pandurang Gulve, a farmer from Solapur.     Onions from Pakistan, China, Israel and Afghanistan have failed to lure local buyers since they are priced at same levels as the domestic produce. “Farmers need to reap the crop in dry condition but the extended monsoon played spoilsport. Onion crops are getting damaged in most parts of the state. We can’t say when prices will dip,” said Ashok Walunj, director of the onionpotato market.     Further, only 60 trucks came to the market on Tuesday, compared to Monday’s 80 truckloads. While APMC officials blamed short supply owing to the extended monsoon, some traders said a majority of workers involved in the loading, unloading and transporting were on leave for Eid. “Though harvesting time is fast approaching, we fear it will be tough just before Diwali, when a shortage of workers is likely,” said Manohar Totlani, a trader.     Potatoes continue to arrive from Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Punjab as well as from Satara, Sangli and Pune. Still, prices shot up on Tuesday ostensibly due to less supply, with just 70 trucks in the market from 100 trucks earlier.     Vegetable prices are also moving northwards due to supply fluctuations from Pune, Satara, Sangli, Sangameshwar and Nashik. “Supply has been fluctuating last week, which affects prices, but it’s more or less stable unlike onion,” said Shankar Pingle, a former APMC director.     Market experts said prices of these essential commodities were usually affected before and after festivals due to supply fluctuations. In fact, the supply chain of onion has changed course from Nashik to southern India. While Nashik reportedly has a stock of old onions which could last another fortnight, the Mumbai APMC is procuring new onions from Dharwad, Hubli, Yashwantnagar and Bangalore. While the APMC gets 20% of its supply from Nashik, the rest comes from the south at cheaper prices. “Dharwad onions are smaller and cheaper by Rs 5,” said Neelam Patil, a homemaker.     Amajor factor to blame for rising prices is the seven-tier supply chain in Maharashtra, comprising the farmer-producer, local trader, commission agent, wholesaler, semiwholesaler, retailer and the consumer. Two years ago, the Centre had ordered dismissal of the APMC, to pave the way for direct marketing by farmers, eliminating middlemen. But Maharashtra is yet to implement the directive.
7-tier chain behind veg price rise: Farmers B B Nayak TNN Mumbai: Vegetable prices, especially onions and potatoes, increased sharply for the second day in a row on Wednesday. While the APMC was closed for Eid and traders sold old stock from Tuesday, sources said the spiraling prices were due to the presence of middlemen.     “I bought onions on Monday at Rs 65 per kg but today it stood at Rs 80. It is unjust on the part of local retailers to use poor stock and high demand on a holiday to hike prices,” said Prithi Machando from Mulund. Ajay Gawade, a Chembur resident, said, “Retailers are looting people in the name of short supply which is not the fact at all. They are exploiting consumers who have no other choice. Average vegetable prices are more than Rs 65 per kg. The government should step in to regulate them.”     However, officials continued to blame short supply for the price hike. Traders said they anticipated another tough day when the market reopens. “If Tuesday’s situation continues on Thursday with poor supply, prices of onions and potatoes will certainly increase in the wholesale market. Retailers will also take advantage of it,” said a trader.     Both consumers and farmers are fed up with the seventier chain (see box). Other states have done away with the APMC to encourage farmers. “We need the state government to take a call, which will fade market monopoly. Farmers and consumers are at the receiving end due to low profit and high shell-out respectively,” said a trader. “If the APMC is eliminated we can have direct contact with wholesalers,” said Dhiraj Kutwal, a farmer from Pune.
ONE-ON-ONE Montek Singh Ahluwalia | DEPUTY CHAIRMAN, PLANNING COMMISSION ‘Good monsoon to boost growth, inflation a worry’ Surojit Gupta & Mahendra Singh TNN     Planning Commission deputy chairman Montek Singh Ahluwalia is optimistic about growth bouncing back on the back of good monsoon. In an interview to TOI, Ahlulwalia says enforcing expenditure discipline will help tame the fiscal deficit. Excerpts: What is your assessment of the economic situation? I think the economy has bottomed out and will now move up, though one has to be cautious on the pace of the recovery. The first quarter GDP numbers were disappointing but there are reasons to be optimistic about the rest of the year. First, the good monsoon will translate into a strong agricultural performance, which will contribute directly to GDP, and will also generate rural demand, which will help non-agricultural GDP. Second, performance in the core sectors — cement, steel, coal, power — has improved from July, though overall industrial production growth remains low. Third, exports have improved as effects of the rupee depreciation have passed through. The depreciation will also help domestic industry compete more effectively against imports. Finally, the efforts made by the government over the past several months to get large projects moving has helped to remove some key impediments. I hope it will lead to a pick-up in investment in the second half of the year. IMF has projected that growth will be below 4%... The IMF has scaled down growth everywhere and especially in emerging markets. For India, they have projected GDP growth at factor cost — which is the measure we use — at 4.3% in 2013. However this projection is for the calendar year 2013, so it includes the period January-April of the current calendar year when growth was low and it does not include the first quarter of 2014, when we expect acceleration to come into play. The IMF forecast is based largely on recent performance. They are not factoring in the possibility that the positive features I have listed may have a significant effect in the next six months. What are your views on the price situation? This is obviously a matter of concern because it impacts the lower income groups. High food inflation is because of high inflation in cereals, and a short-term spike in onion prices. The government is working on ways to offload substantial volumes of stocks of foodgrains, which I think will soften cereal prices. Onion prices have already been coming down, as the new crop arrives. What is your assessment of the fiscal situation? It is true that the fiscal deficit has been running on the high side in the first half. This is because revenues have been lower than projected, because of lower growth but the situation could improve if the economy recovers in the second half of the year. The finance minister has also announced cuts in non-plan expenditure. There is also a likelihood of underspending on the plan front because of the state elections in several states occurring at a time when work is normally at full swing. Are you anticipating a major cut in plan expenditure? I hope there won’t be a formal cut on plan expenditure, but plan expenditure is often lower than projected in the Budget because of delays in administrative approvals and also in implementation at the state level. Normally, such underspending is offset by supplementary demands presented to Parliament in the course of the year. If we refrain from seeking supplementaries, our total expenditure will automatically be contained. I wouldn’t call this a cut. It is simply enforcement of expenditure discipline. This is what happened last year. Do you think US Fed tapering might disrupt markets? It is difficult to say what the Fed will do and when it will act. However, most people think the taper will now begin only in 2014, by when our position in terms of the current account deficit will look much better. The taper will have some impact, but as long as it is gradual, it may be manageable. The rupee is also at a much more realistic level, reducing the possibility of a speculative attack.
Onion prices at all-time high in Lasalgaon Tushar Pawar TNN Nashik: The average onion prices at the country’s largest wholesale market — Lasalgaon Agriculture Produce Market Committee (APMC) — skyrocketed to an all-time high of Rs 5,600 per quintal on Friday. The earlier record stood at Rs 5,501 a quintal on September 17. Owing to lack of supply, the price rose Rs 300 a quintal (5.66%) to Rs 5,600 on Friday, against Rs 5,300 aquintal on Thursday.     In retail markets across Nashik, onions were being sold at Rs 60 a kg on Friday due to the price rise. In district APMCs, the average wholesale prices were recorded in the range of Rs 5,451 to Rs 5,751 a quintal, against the range of Rs 5,251 to Rs 5,300 a quintal on Thursday. The minimum and maximum prices were recorded at Rs 2,500 and Rs 5,947 a quintal respectively, on Friday. Around 8,000 quintals of onions were auctioned in Lasalgaon on Friday.
NEWS DIGEST 2 city kids die of dengue in a day A 14-year-old boy from Mahim and an eight-year-old girl from Mulund died of dengue on Friday, taking the city’s dengue toll this season to 11. The Class VIII boy’s health worsened after he went to school. P 5 Sensex near 3-year high: The sensex gained 467 points on Friday to close at a nearly three-year high of 20,883. Meanwhile, the rupee ended five paise lower at 61.27 against the dollar. P 20 City temp rises to 35°C: Day-time temperatures rose sharply to around 35 degree Celsius on Friday, with weather officials calling it the start of the October heat. P 5 Swing rope kills teen: A 13-year-old boy died in his Ghatkopar flat after his neck got entangled in the ropes of a swing in his room. P 4 3 of a family die on tracks: A couple and their 22-year-old daughter who were knocked down by a local at Byculla on Thursday were walking along the tracks and had craned their necks to get a better look.P 4 Lasalgaon onion rates peak: The average wholesale onion price at Lasalgaon was at an all-time high of Rs 5,600 per quintal on Friday. P 11 S Arabia rejects UNSC seat: Saudi Arabia has rejected its United Nations Security Council seat angry over the US’s overtures to Iran. P 18 
Citizens paid 1,150cr extra for veggies from Apr-Sep Chittaranjan Tembhekar TNN Mumbai: People in Mumbai, Thane and Navi Mumbai are estimated to have paid Rs 1,150 crore more for vegetables over April-September than they would have, had prices remained at the January-March levels, reveal the state government’s agriculture and marketing experts.     The figure has been arrived at after taking into account the extra amount wholesalers at Vashi’s Agriculture Produce Marketing Committee (APMC) received during April-September after rates rose since March.     A back-of-the-envelope calculation shows that the APMC made Rs 765 crore. Since retail prices are at least 50% more than wholesale prices, people in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region paid Rs 1,150 crore extra (a 50% retail mark-up on Rs 765 crore).     The actual extra amount the public paid could be much higher than the estimate: APMC sources said retailers often hike prices by 60-70% and sometimes by over 100%. Experts blame prices on ‘open market’ Mumbai: APMC traders indulge in sheer profiteering to keep the prices of vegetables high, say sources. “But since July, the profiteering trend has been a bit under control, mainly because of the government’s opening of 121 fairprice outlets in the MMR,” said a source.     In January-March, the APMC earned Rs 7.5 crore a day on an average on a sale of 3,000 tonnes of vegetables. At the time, wholesale vegetable prices were in the range of Rs 20-25 per kg. After March, when wholesale prices almost doubled because of inflation and alleged hoarding and profiteering, the APMC earned around Rs 14 crore a day on an average on the sale of the same tonnage in April-June. When prices went down in the July-September period (but were still higher than January-March) the APMC earned Rs 9.5 crore a day on an average.     Agriculture and marketing expert and APMC director Sanjay Pansare blamed the increased prices of vegetables on the “open market trend”. He said traders are buying stocks directly from farmers. “Traders from across the state go to places like Lasalgaon, Narayangaon and Pimplgaon, where stocks of onions, tomatoes, cabbages and other main vegetables are sold to them directly. The stocks should ideally arrive at the APMC first and from the APMC should go to retailers.”     He said middlemen often buy from farmers and then sell to the APMC for a profit, making prices soar. “Such traded stock from the villages costs even more when another chunk of traders buy it from the APMC and sell it to retailers. Thus, consumers end up paying many times more than what it took to produce the vegetables in the first place.”     Pansare also said that the APMC’s turnover was not as high as experts believe it to be. “It’s true that the common man has had to pay through his nose for vegetables in recent months, but that is because of the reasons I mentioned. The APMC’s turnover has been low because during the same period, stocks went down from the pre-April levels.”     But some experts, who did not want to be named, refused to buy Pansare’s version of the turnover and refuted his statement that the stocks had gone down.
Panic grips govt as onion hits 100/kg Lack Of Plan To Tackle Crisis A Bigger Problem Tushar Pawar TNN New Delhi/Nasik: With onion prices continuing to be on fire in the run-up to crucial state polls, an embattled government scrambled to stem the surge but appeared to lack a coherent plan.     As onion prices, defying the sharp dip in the rates in the country’s biggest wholesale market at Lasalgaon in Nashik, continued to spiral and touched the Rs 100 per kg mark in the city and elsewhere, panic in the government was obvious. Food minister K V Thomas rushed to Maharashtra as the Congress-ruled state accounts for 28% of the total onion production and can help tame prices by cracking down on hoarders.     Commerce minister Anand Sharma blamed hoarders for the spike in onion prices, which political rivals have painted as UPA government’s failure, and worse, insensitivity towards the poor.     The Congress government in Delhi, which rode the onion anger to power in 1998, was more precise as it shifted the blame on hoarders in BJPruled Madhya Pradesh. Civil supplies minister Haroon Yusuf alleged that hoarders were keeping supplies from reaching Delhi to sabotage Congress’s prospects in the assembly elections.     But beyond the anger, the Centre did not seem to have any plan to deal with the crisis. Banning exports was considered only to be discarded after it was recognized that with domestic prices ruling high, few would have the incentive to sell abroad. “Banning exports may sound politically right but it will not be a good decision economically,” Thomas told TOI.     Talk of onion imports from Egypt, Afghanistan and Pakistan was back on the table but going by the experience a couple of months ago when prices started shooting up, it may not prove to be beneficial. In the summer, imports from Pakistan were held up because of clearance problems at the Wagah border.     The crisis appeared to be man-made. On Tuesday, the average wholesale price of the new crop at Lasalgaon was Rs 3,900 a quintal, 37% cheaper than in the summer. Yet, the drop was not reflecting in retail prices. What may prove to be more problematic is that in many cases, farmers are holding on to their stocks expecting better prices. Moving against them may be politically prohibitive. Farmers are far more powerful as a political constituency both because of numbers and the fact that they don’t carry the stigma attached to hoarders.
NEWS DIGEST Strike hits ops at Nhava Sheva port Shipping operations at Nhava Sheva port near the city have been affected due to a strike by workers over wages. The movement of vehicles in the port area has been hit. P 20 C L Raheja charged in ‘cheating’ case A chargesheet has been filed against builder C L Raheja and his two sons in an alleged cheating case. Industrialist Nusli Wadia has said that the Rahejas fraudulently sold or leased developed units of a 110-acre Malad property. P 3 State help sought on onions: Union food minister K V Thomas has sought the Maharashtra government’s help in controlling the onion price rise, even as the bulb sold for Rs 100 per kg in Delhi. P 11 ‘State must rein in khaps’: The national women’s panel has proposed that the state must stop khap panchayats from forcing women into marriages or non-consensual sex within marriage. P 4 Biggest NSEL defaulter held: The managing director of the biggest defaulter firm in the Rs 5,600-crore NSEL cheating case has been arrested. P 19 Cover for public deposits? The government has proposed a compulsory insurance cover for public deposits and a fine of up to 18% annual interest for defaulters. P 19 Apple launches iPad Air: Apple has launched iPad Air, a tablet that is 20% thinner and weighs just a pound. Its price starts at $499. P 20 
CULINARY CHATTER Onions too costly? Cook with chives Ismat Tahseen     With soaring prices of onions, how about using chives as a replacement? The herbs can give you the flavour of onion without being too strong! With its thin, green blades, this smallest member of the onion family, imparts a mild, grassy flavour just like that of spring onions. The Asian variety of chives is called garlic chives. STORAGE The herb is available in markets. When buying, choose green leaves with no browning or wilting. It can be kept refrigerated for up to three days. PREPARATION There’s a lot you can do with chives. Make a creamy sauce out of it, use it as garnishes over salads and in sandwiches or add it on a hearty soup, the delicate herbs work just as well. It’s best to snip the chives with a small pair of scissors and do not over cook them or they will lose their taste. Our tip: Sprinkle chives on your omelette!
No More Tears Loosen mandis’ stranglehold over trade to combat inflation in onions     The retail price of onion breached the three-figure mark in New Delhi this week, as if to be in sync with the 100%-plus monthly inflation recorded for this vegetable since June relative to the previous year. At the height of Zimbabwe’s hyperinflation, the government stopped filing inflation statistics. Hopefully, India will avoid such drastic measures and get down to addressing structural bottlenecks which have led to elevated prices of vegetables and fruits over the last few years.     Indian farmers have shown themselves to be rational economic agents, responding to price signals the way people in other sectors do. Cropped area of cotton, vegetables and fruits have recorded the largest gains in the recent past. Why then should the world’s second largest producer of fruits and vegetables see frequent spikes in their price level? Because the journey between the farm and consumer has so many hurdles that even in wake of frenetic urbanisation, less than 40% of farm produce is consumed in urban areas. India’s opaque mandis need to have their stranglehold grip over farm trade loosened. A decade’s experience of trying to gingerly reform the Agricultural Produce Marketing Committee Act has been disappointing. Modern retail’s scale economies can’t make a dent in this area unless fruits and vegetables are exempted from APMC. Competition here is essential and states need to shoulder responsibility.     Also, the market works best when it is complemented by judicious public investment. Over the last decade, governments in India have prioritised agricultural subsidies over public investment. Given how inefficiently subsidies are targeted, this approach isn’t a fruitful one (pun fully intended). It’s time to re-prioritise and use public investment to build infrastructure that widens and deepens links between farmers and markets.
Onion crisis to last another 2-3 weeks: Pawar Vishwa Mohan & Dipak Kumar Dash TNN New Delhi: Even as the Centre on Wednesday stepped in to import onion from China and Pakistan in a bid to cool down prices of the staple, Union agriculture minister Sharad Pawar warned that the crisis may continue for another two to three weeks. “Next two to three weeks will be tough. Ultimately, we have to find a solution. We have to import as early as possible,” Pawar said, putting his faith on the import route to end the crisis.     The central cooperative major Nafed, accordingly, has floated a tender — the third in two months — to import onions from China, Pakistan, Iran and Egypt, and allowed international traders to import the vegetable without prior fumigation so that they can ensure quick supply. Since fumigation at exporters’ end takes time, the government decided to fumigate the produce once it reaches India.     Pawar will hold a meeting with food minister K V Thomas and commerce minister Anand Sharma on Thursday to discuss ways of tackling the situation. Including China in the list of countries from where onion can be imported, however,intrigued many officials in the ministry of consumer affairs as its report on the price rise warned against buying onions from that country. The report noted that an earlier consignment from China did not find “acceptance amongst consumers because of (the onions’) poor pungency and taste”.     Even the onion imported by private traders from several countries including China, had not found many takers. The average import price was Rs 49 per kg. The import, in any case, may not bring early relief to consumers as the consignment from abroad would hit the market only around November 10 in Delhi. It will take another two to three days to reach other states.     The Centre has asked chief ministers of all states to invoke the Essential Commodities Act against hoarders as it is suspected that the wholesale traders across the country would take advantage of the situation where supply chain was disrupted due to rains, decline in production and poor storage capacity. Sources said that sensing a fall in produce this year, government should have kept 1-2 million tonnes of buffer stock for use in an emergency. Now, potato prices too on the boil New Delhi: After onion, potato prices have started increasing in Delhi and other cities. Wholesale prices are hovering around Rs 18 per kg at the mandis while retail prices are between Rs 25 and Rs 30 per kg in the capital. Wholesale prices have increased by Rs 2-8 per kg in other cities including Mumbai and Chennai. Though officials in the food and agriculture ministries said the price rise was not very unusual, they were stumped by the increase despite wholesale prices falling by Rs 62 per quintal. “There are some forces which are trying to exploit the mood in the market, which needs to be checked,” said an official. TNN
Leading dairies hike costs, cite farmers’ welfare Bella Jaisinghani TNN Mumbai: A week after Amul announced an increase in milk prices, Mother Dairy has followed suit. Both suppliers raised milk prices by up to Rs 2 per litre, the 18th hike since 2006.     Amul, which last increased prices on July 1, announced an increase again on October 15. Both Mother Dairy and Amul now charge Rs 44 per litre over Rs 42 for full cream milk and Rs 34 instead of Rs 32 for toned milk. Both have said the price hike was in the best interest of dairy farmers, echoing the argument of agriculture minister Sharad Pawar, who has been saying profits from onions benefit growers. Each blamed the increased cost of cattle feed and fodder for the fresh spike. “For every rupee taken from you, almost 80 paise is paid back to dairy farmers who are our owners. It is the best consumer-to-producer price ratio in this part of the world,” reads an ad by Amul on October 15.     The Mother Dairy statement was similar in letter and spirit. A representative said from New Delhi that 80-85 paise of every rupee does indeed go to milk producers.     The Amul spokesperson was not available for comment. An official manning its helpline admitted people complained about frequent increase in milk rates.
Onion at 80, Pawar says no pre-Diwali relief Traders Claim Cartels Fix Prices, Say Exports Not Lucrative Enough Bella Jaisinghani TNN Mumbai: Even as the price of onion hit Rs 80 per kg in Mumbai Tuesday, Union agriculture minister Sharad Pawar repeated his twoweek deadline for prices to fall. It prompted Mumbai’s traders to immediately assert that rates would not dip before Diwali.     The indifference of the minister to the common man’s woes was apparent as Pawar reiterated that he was not an astrologer to predict a fall in prices. However, a wholesale trader in Vashi claimed, “Pawar has the best acumen of any astrologer I have known. He knows exactly when prices will rise and how long they will remain high.”     Reports of a 5% drop in wholesale rates in Lasalgaon Mandi did nothing to cool prices in Mumbai. Three months after the onion scourge affected households in August, the Centre finally admitted on Monday that hoarding and profiteering were causing artificial inflation and urged state governments to crack down on middlemen and hoarders.     A Vashi trader said punishing hoarders was the only solution. “Banning exports of onion will not help, primarily because exports are not lucrative at this time. Local rates are so high that traders make better profits by selling here. Importing from China and Egypt will not help either. Consumers shun these onions as they are large and bland and cost Rs 50-55 per kg anyway,” he said.     On Tuesday, onion was selling for Rs 80 in Khar, Rs 70 in Andheri and Dadar and Rs 55-60 in Kurla. APMC director Ashok Walunj said the wholesale rates hovered between Rs 40-52.     A Vashi wholesaler alleged that influential cartels were compelling them to sell at high rates. “What can one do if people move about the market instructing you to sell at a certain rate, not a rupee less,” he said. Afact-finding team of the state agriculture ministry had chanced upon a similar cartel operating among vegetable retailers during June-July. “Large retailers who supply to neighbourhood shops fix the price of each vegetable as they unload stock. They do not allow vendors to sell below that rate,” said an official. Vendors outside Apna Bazar, Andheri, confirmed this was true. However, the team’s report has been effectively buried with no action taken against those cartels.
NEWS DIGEST Former army chief’s remarks scandalous, says Supreme Court The SC on Wednesday blasted ex-army chief Gen V K Singh for his “scandalous” remarks about the way his plea seeking a change in the year of his birth was handled. P 12 Jet’s worst quarterly loss of nearly 1K cr The Jet Group has reported a loss of Rs 998.5 crore for the quarter ended September 30—its biggest ever quarterly loss. Jet Airways has alone suffered a loss of Rs 891 crore.P 21 ‘Onion crisis to last 2-3 wks’: Agriculture minister Sharad Pawar has said that the crisis of rising onion prices may continue for another two to three weeks. P 4, 10 BMC-MCA deal? BMC Standing Committee head Rahul Shewale has said the Mumbai Cricket Association should give councillors and other civic officials membership to the Kandivli sports academy. P 2 ‘Probe if Jiah was killed’: The Bombay HC has asked the police to probe allegations by actor Jiah Khan’s mother that her daughter was murdered and it was not a suicide. P 2 Lorgat rubbishes charges: SA cricket board CEO Haroon Lorgat has refuted charges of trying to bribe a journalist. P 23 Fatty foods good for heart: Study A study by an Indian-origin doctor in the UK has shown that contrary to popular belief, fatty foods like butter, cheese and eggs are good for the heart. P 19 
E D I T PAG E M A I L B OX Teach politicians a lesson This is with reference to the editorial ‘No More Tears’ (October 24). It is very unfortunate that the price of onions has crossed the Rs 100 per kilo mark. The common man is suffering. Such spurts in food prices are frequent now. One presumes that traders are able to get away with this as they are major contributors to the coffers of political parties. There is an unholy nexus between politicians, middlemen and traders. The man in the street will continue to bear the burden of price rise till this nexus is broken. It is time we stood together and taught the unscrupulous politicians the lesson of their life in the next elections.     R K Kapoor, CHANDIGARH Extend India China ties This is with reference to the editorial ‘Chummy with China’ (October 24). The situation along the India China border has changed significantly in recent times. In earlier decades intrusions were rare and border tensions were minimal. Today both countries are strengthening their military infrastructure and China has definitely taken a big lead here. Unfortunately this has been followed by recurring Chinese intrusions into our territory. In such a backdrop it is indeed good that both nations have signed a pact to manage the border. But ideally it should have covered more areas of the relationship. Improved relations with China will force other nations who are hostile to us on the back foot and even make the great powers take notice. And geographical factors also demand that we promote closer cooperation with China.     Bal Govind, NOIDA
Supply chain to blame for ‘onion’ tears Subodh Verma TIG     Despite an impressive rise in production,thecountry seemstobe facing an onion crisis.     Exportsor useby the processing industry are not the reasons behind shortfall in supply, says Jai Gopal, director of the Directorate of Onion and Garlic Research, an agriculture ministry organization which is based in Rajgurunagar, midway between Nashik and Pune. E xports have remained about 10% of total production for many years and another 10% is consumed in the processing industry,” he estimates.     Then why the fire? Apart from some very immediate causes of a dip in supply because of a rainy spell in September causing transport problems, the real reason appears to be the way the supply chain of onions works in India. A report by the Competition Commission of India (CCI) on India’s onion market, released earlier this year, has pointed at the domination of traders and ‘commission agents’ right from the primary mandis, squeezing both farmers at one end and consumers at the other.     “We found that established, big traders, through a complex system of oral andinformallinkages,dominated the primary mandis, discouraging others, often pre-concluding negotiations on prices, stopping auctions and determining higher prices,” says CCI member Geeta Gouri.     The report prepared by the Institute for Social & Economic Change, Bangalore, included a field study of farmers, wholesale traders, commission agents, retailers and consumers connected with 11 mandis in the onion belt of Maharashtra and Karnataka. “A few big traders having well connected networks with market intermediaries in other markets seem to play a major role in hoarding for expected high prices,” the report emphasized.     The average plot under onion was less than 1.3 acres per farmer and most of them had no independent information about its prices. They were paid what the commission agents or traders told them. The report highlighted a case in Ahmednagar where a fixed auction was witnessed between two traders. Onion price was bid up to Rs 405 before the bidding was stopped and the onions divided between the two bidders. In a free and impartial process, bids may have gone much higher.     The CCI report found farmers were getting about Rs 5 per kg for onions. By the time the produce reached the urban consumer in, say Pune or Bangalore, the price had increased to Rs 20 or more, at the time of the survey. “Since agriculture is a state subject, we have sent the report to state governments. We are trying to persuade them to act on it,” Gouri said. Experts believe opening new mandis, allowing farmers to sell produce directly and strong action to break hoarding at all levels are necessary if the recurring price spikes are to be checked. Centre gives 922 crore to Maharashtra for crop loss New Delhi: The government on Thursday asserted that the onion shortage was only “temporary” and prices were expected to fall in the next 2-3 weeks once fresh produce started arriving in the market from Maharashtra, Karnataka and Rajasthan.     “Onion shortage is a temporary situation. Heavy rains had affected crops in Karnataka and Maharashtra,” agriculture minister Sharad Pawar said while announcing a financial package of Rs 921.98 crore to Maharashtra for crop damage. Pawar, at the same time, expressed concern about possible glut of onions in the coming weeks leading to price crash. “I am worried that farmers in next 1-2 months will complain about price crash,” he said. The money approved for Maharashtra will be given to the farmers who suffered loss in the state. It will be used to strengthen the distribution network from farms to ‘mandis’ to ensure smooth supply in coming months.     Though the farmers had been demanding such assistance for over a month, the sudden price rise of onion has helped them get the Centre’s attention at the time when five states are on assembly pollmode. On reasons for sharp spike in retail prices, he said: “In Nashik, farmers are getting Rs 45 per kg. I don’t understand why it should sell at Rs 90 per kg here. Government does not control onions and does not sell onions. Prices are determined by the market.” TNN
New onion supplies arrive in city, but price still at 60-65 Bella Jaisinghani TNN Mumbai: The good news: Mumbai is receiving stocks of new onions despite agriculture minister Sharad Pawar’s claims of crop damage due to unseasonal rain.     The bad news: The new onions are selling at exorbitant rates of Rs 60-65 per kg in markets though their arrival was expected to normalize rates at Rs 12-15.     Further, with heated onion prices showing no signs of cooling, the state government fair price shops on Thursday pulled out stocks of the older, better onions as the price touched a record Rs 60 a day before. The new variety is selling in the fair price shops for Rs 40/kg.     The shops had been selling two grades since the crisis unfolded in August — a superior variety for Rs 45 and a lower grade for Rs 32.     “In normal times, housewives avoid the new stocks for its high moisture content that makes it difficult to peel. However, desperate times call for desperate measures. Now, this variety is selling briskly because it is cheaper. We received 180 kg of new onions around 2.30pm on Thursday and it emptied out by evening. People are looking at price, not quality, given the exorbitant market rates,” said Shashikant Gudhekar, manager of the Apna Bazar outlet at Charkop.     The authorities are speaking in several voices, a situation tailor-made for the price pinch to continue. For instance, Union commerce minister Anand Sharma and Virendra Singh, chairman of the National Cooperative Consumers Federation, have blamed hoarding and black-marketing. But the powerful leaders of Maharashtra, India’s onion capital, continue to deny it.     Pawar has said he expects high prices to continue through Diwali (another2-3 weeks) as unseasonal rains have spoiled some of the crop. But the bountiful monsoon has thrown up a bumper crop that will sell at throwaway rates once it floods the cities. It could more than encourage big farmers and wholesalers to hold their stocks till after Diwali. TIMES VIEW: Some of the statements made by influential people who should have helped in bringing down prices now seem to be condoning and seeking to explain the inexplicable rise in onion prices. A section of politicians appear to have, unwittingly or otherwise, played along with the middlemen’s lobby that has jacked up prices artificially.
GOING NORTH Onion output up 300% in last decade, so why the price rise? Subodh Varma TIMES INSIGHT GROUP     It’s virtually impossible to tell why onion prices have gone through the roof. In the past 10 years, between 2002-03 and 2012-13, onion production has jumped from 42 lakh metric tonnes to 163 LMT—a nearly 300% rise. In the same period, India’s population has grown by about 1.7% a year. So, unless we have become a nation of onion junkies, where are all the onions going?     There’s been no sudden slump in production. In 2013-14, the output is likely to be 10-15% more than last year, based on kharif crop estimates, says H R Sharma of the National Horticultural Research & Development Foundation.
Indians click for value this festive season E-Tail Websites’ Sales Surge 300% In 1 Month John Sarkar TNN New Delhi: Want fresh pethas straight from Agra? A refurbished LED at half its original price? Designer clothing at great bargains? Look no further than your laptop.     With onion prices shooting through the roof, valueconscious Indians are turning to the web to shop this festive season. Popular e-tail websites are reporting a 300% spurt in sales over last month. From chocolates and clothes to mobile phones and jewellery, consumers are enjoying the lower prices, the variety on offer and the convenience of shopping from the comfort of their homes. “The gifting category is pushing growth for most players,” says Manu Jain, co-founder of Jabong.     Sample this: A shopping portal from distribution and supply chain service firm GATI promises to deliver items such as kesar from Kashmir, Alphonso mangoes from Ratnagiri, peanuts from Baruch, chikki from Lonavala and haleem from Hyderabad to any place in the country in 12 hours flat. “Who would want to brave traffic jams and overcrowded markets,” says Bablu Tewari, COO at GATI-KWE. “People are now looking for one-click answers to their gifting needs.”     Think Diwali-specific categories such as thalis, home furnishings, decorations and artifacts. Says Saurabh Malik, business head, Indiatimes Shopping: “One of the most interesting trends we have noticed this year is that a lot of people from Tier-II and Tier-III towns are buying gifts online.” Though e-tail captures less than a per cent of the retail pie in India, which is very low compared to 6% in China and 5% in the US, it is the fastest growing category in the non-travel segment of e-commerce with 59% Y-o-Y growth, according to a report by global consultancy firm KPMG.     The Indian e-tail industry is pegged at Rs 13,000 crore by industry estimates. “Most people go online to check and compare features of high-involvement categories like consumer electronics and durables, but they end up buying something on impulse like gifts at the last minute,” says Anand Ramanathan, associate director, KPMG in India.     Country manager and head of consumer services at American Express Banking Corp Shailesh Baidwan agrees: “Nearly 40% of our card members transact online. This month, we are seeing a significant increase in their spending and card usage. Perhaps the discounts and offers on our cards for Diwali is contributing to the rise.”     Discounts are a big draw for people who are taking to the web to shop. “In the current unpredictable economic scenario, people want value for their money,” says Hitendra Chaturvedi, founder and CEO of GreenDust, a company that sells branded refurbished consumer durables like refrigerators, televisions, laptops and mobile phones on its website and retail stores. “Earlier, people were not very keen to buy refurbished electronics. This time, I’m not too surprised to see even affluent consumers from metros walking off with large factory-second LEDs at half the price.”     Unlike most offline retailers, which focus on just discounts and freebies, sites such as, Flipkart, Snapdeal, Jabong, Myntra and Yebhi are expanding the range of products on offer. “One of the main reasons is to tap women who are fast migrating to the online space,” says Nikhil Rungta, chief business officer at Yebhi. “From 75:25 a year ago, the split between male and female consumers who shop online has changed to 65:35.”     While Yebhi is banking on affordable fashion jewellery and western wear, Flipkart is pushing its new range of ethnic wear, which according to various retailers is snapped up briskly during festive periods. Says Ravi Vora, senior VP (marketing) at Flipkart, “We have started offering saris and we are already seeing a spike in numbers before Diwali.” SURFING TO SAVE     At Rs 13,000cr e-tailing accounts for 1% of India’s retail biz — far less than 6% in China & 5% in the US     But it’s the fastest growing segment of e-commerce (non-travel) at 59% annually, with Tier-II & -III towns giving biggest boost     This festive season, banks’ offers on cards, online discounts and the convenience of shopping from home has pushed sales     Netizens are lapping up even refurbished durables and taking on such offers as getting a haleem from Hyderabad in 12 hrs     Women are driving sales too, clocking a male-to-female ratio of 65:35, which is up from 75:25 a year ago
S N A P J U D G M E N T
House panel to discuss food inflation next week New Delhi:Concerned over the spiraling prices of onion and other vegetables, the Parliamentary estimates committee will take up the price rise issue next Wednesday. Sources said consumer affairs ministry has been asked to make a presentation since spurt in food prices has had cascading effect on inflation. Centre’s tardy response to cool sky-rocketing onion prices have started hurting the a a m a d mi, and in turn threatening prospects of the ruling Congress in upcoming assembly polls.     UPA is emphasizing on the need to create enough storage capacity for onion that farmers sell at a lower price during peak production season. Food minister K VThomas said during certain months onion, potato and tomato are available “plenty” followed by “scarcity”. TNN
CM charts onion solution for Delhi, forgets Mumbai Bella Jaisinghani TNN Pune/Mumbai: Chief minister Prithviraj Chavan on Friday said he had asked his Delhi counterpart Sheila Dikshit to procure onions directly from the Nashik markets and transport them to the national capital. It would bring down the rates of the bulb to a little over Rs 50 a kg there, much lower than the Rs 80-100 it is selling for now.     Immersed in his homework for Delhi, Chavan doesn’t seem to have noticed that in his own capital Mumbai, a fraction of the distance from Nashik compared to Delhi, the bulbs are selling for much more than Rs 50, even at government fair price shops. The rate is Rs 40 a kg, but its centres on Friday were charging Rs 58-68.     Avisit to the Apna Bazar outlet in Andheri on Friday showed onion selling for Rs 60 instead of the official Rs 40. Sahakari Bhandar, Colaba, had the loose variety selling for Rs 65 a kg and 1kg pack for Rs 68. Cannot afford to sell onions at 40: Govt fair price shop official ‘APMC Stock Promised By Govt Not Arriving’ Pune/Mumbai: CM Prithviraj Chavan has said onion prices will fall drastically once farmers start releasing the new crop from next week. The new crop with high water content is in storage at present as farmers do not get a good price for it.     On Thursday, the new variety was selling for Rs 40 a kg in the fair price shops and not the usual rates of Rs 10-12. On Friday, even the Rs 40 onion was not available .     A visit to the Andheri Apna Bazar around 3.30pm on Friday showed onion selling for Rs 60 instead of the official Rs 40, a 50% mark-up. In Bandra, loose onion was for Rs 58 and the packed variety for Rs 62.     When the state agriculture ministry started running these centres in August, there were two varieties. The superior quality bulb stood at Rs 60 per kg on Wednesday, the inferior No. 2 was available for Rs 40. On Thursday, the state pulled out the Rs 60 bulb, citing low supplies.     “Where is the APMC stock that the government promises? Our centres are barely receiving any onions from the state. We are forced to buy from external suppliers and cannot afford to sell for Rs 40. We have suffered losses to the tune of lakhs and there is no word of compensation,” complained a senior official of one government centre.     The state can’t seem to be able to supply its stores, but CM Chavan had worked out a formula for the Delhi CM. “The Delhi government has sent three officials to Nashik. Onion prices there range from Rs 38-55 per kg. Delhi can purchase onions from the market as an emergency measure. The cost of transporting 12 to 13 tonnes in a truck would be around Rs 12,000. Working out these costs, onions can be sold at around Rs 50 per kg in Delhi,” Chavan said in Pune.     But even in Mumbai, the government stores are not selling at Rs 50. At the Andheri Apna Bazar, the onion price was marked at Rs 60. Tomato was priced at Rs 36 instead of Rs 34, cauliflower Rs 62 against Rs 56 and green chillies Rs 34, not the official Rs 28. After the issue was raised with the store manager, the prices dropped. Apna Bazar chairman Anil Gangar promised to inquire.     An agriculture ministry spokesperson said: “It is possible centres which source better quality dry onion independently charge more. But different rates at government centres can cause confusion.” TIMES VIEW: A simple comparison between a claimed dip in production and the evident rise in price will be enough to show how people have been taken for a ride. No arithmetic or economics or plain bazaar logic can explain this. This sort of a runaway price rise can only be attributed to rampant profiteering that the government has not been able to check; in all probability, it has been encouraged by politicians who control the trade.
POLITICALLY INCORRECT The EQ factor: When politicians get personal SHOBHAA DE Thank you, Rahul Gandhi for liberating me — liberating us — from the burden of suppressed emotions. Regardless of what his critics are saying about his Alwar outburst, I am pretty sure Rahul touched countless hearts. A no-holds-barred personal catharsis from a political bigwig on this scale and level is a hard act to top. But then again, Rahul’s extraordinary life is a hard act to compete against. When he chose to go public with his pain, there was so much anguish evident in his words and body language, it converted what could have been dismissed as a shrewd manipulative political stunt into a genuinely moving coming-to-terms-with-monumentalgrief moment. The dramatic transformation from an outspoken leader to a little boy trying his best to cope with profound personal tragedy was complete. And dare I say it? Convincing. His is a marked life. Let’s not get away from that horrible truth. It is an awareness Rahul Gandhi, all of 43, has to live with day in and day out. The deadly impact of this ghastly reality obviously struck him (and let’s not forget Priyanka), when the two terrified and shocked children crouched on the floor of a car on the advice of their security officers, as the vehicle sped to Delhi after the brutal assassination of their grandmother, Indira Gandhi. Her killers were trusted men Rahul said he had frequently played with in the compound of their bungalow. This was just the beginning of Rahul’s horror story.     Imagine the rage, hurt and bewilderment experienced by a 14-year-old at such a time. To that horrific memory was added the trauma of the assassination of his father Rajiv Gandhi at Sriperumbudur in 1991, aged 46. Rahul confessed in Alwar that he kept that anger bottled up for 15 long years, unable to deal with the twin tragedies. Today, he tells us, he is acutely aware he too could be killed. But he doesn’t care. Cynics will wonder about the timing of his confessional (Rajasthan goes to the polls on December 1). It is being said this is an attempt to cold bloodedly play the emotional card in order to sway the electorate. His sudden decision to reveal his ‘dil ki baat’ is being questioned and mocked by intellectuals and rivals. But you know what? Even if his new strategy (to share his life’s most dramatic and tragic moments), is nothing more than a manipulative tool, I have no problems with it. Indians are overly sentimental. The world may describe us as emotional fools. The world may also be right. But that’s us.     Rahul’s decision could backfire…and backfire pretty badly. But no other politician that I can recall has chosen to heal emotional wounds in public quite as openly. While Rahul’s attempt to link his personal loss and tragedy to the BJP’s bloody history of allegedly creating and fanning communal riots can be a point for deeper debate, his plea for putting hatred and vendetta aside cannot be ridiculed or dismissed. He referred to his own struggle to find closure after decades of seething and suffering within. Anybody who has experienced immeasurable grief at the loss of loved ones will easily identify with Rahul’s sorrow.     Rahul has opted for an overwrought personal narrative to woo voters. So be it. There is no real vision statement. His pitch is pretty obvious — “My family has suffered and sacrificed a lot in the service of the nation. I could be the next target. I urge you to shun violence. Save the country and vote for the Congress.” He has taken to referring to his mother’s role in his life a lot, as well. We know she cried over the controversial food security bill while he rushed her to hospital in an ambulance. We also know she is his guru. Is Rahul coming across as the ultimate wimp? Or as a sensitive man in touch with his inner self? It’s too early to say whether his latest approach will move people enough to give Congress another chance, based on nothing more than a passionate appeal from a leader who lost two dearly beloved family members to ugly politics. Politics rarely gives netas a space for sharing emotional issues. It is considered a waste of time at best, a useless self-indulgence, at worst. We are told voters only want to know about the price of onions and fuel. But in our frenzy to add up those wretched numbers and elect a new government at the Centre, we should not overlook the emotional quotient (EQ) of a people. Sometimes, a frank and free heart-toheart can achieve what logic and statistics can’t. If only we had more politicians sharing their dil ki baat with the nation!
Onions at 20/kg? Not so far-fetched Building buffer and timely imports can make them cheap the year round Ashok Gulati     If I say today that I am ready to supply onions, in an improvised form, at Rs 20/kg home delivered, and round the year, people may think either I have gone crazy or I am dipping into the general exchequer to pull off a massive subsidy scheme for onions. Wrong. I will make a cool profit of 15 to 20% in this deal, do a great service to consumers and farmers of this country, and perhaps also help our policy makers under tremendous pressure following public outrage sparked by the rising onion prices.     How is this feasible? Let us first understand the structure of onion production, its marketing cycle, and what has happened this year which has pushed prices sky high. India produces about 16 million tonnes of onions across three different seasons: rabi onion accounts for roughly 60%, kharif another 20% and late kharif remaining 20%. Maharashtra accounts for one-third of the country’s production, followed by Karnataka (about 18%) and Gujarat another 10%. Together these three states control over 60% of all India production and roughly threefourths of interstate trade of onions.     The rabi onion is harvested in April-May and stored until September-October, around the time the kharif crop starts coming to the market in the second week of October, peaking in Nov-Dec. The kharif crop will be harvested later and comes to the market in December-January. Late Kharif hits the markets in February-March. So the stocks of rabi season are at its lowest in September-October.     This year, there have been heavy rains in Maharashtra, Karnataka and Gujarat even during the first two weeks of October. This has delayed the harvest by two to three weeks and at places also damaged the crop. October, early November is also a festive season when the demand peaks. So you have a case of lowest stocks and highest demand. In this situation, if the market sentiments declare scarcity, everyone from farmer to trader to hawker in the onion value chain starts jacking up the price. Call it a perfect storm!     That is what has happened this year. The government had expected that onion prices would automatically come down in the second half of October, so they did not import much stock. But due to heavy rains, this is deferred to November-December. This is what has created a vacuum in the market and pushed prices abnormally high. However, prices will come down and by December-January, they will be back to normal levels of Rs 10-20/kg in the wholesale market, as they were during September to December last year. This sounds impossible today, but in a month’s time, this may be a reality.     Now, how do we take care of the critical months (September-October) when stocks hit rock bottom? There are two policy instruments: (a) have buffer stocks; (b) import. We have not exercised any of these policy instruments, and now in panic, we may have to airlift onions and dump at below costs in the domestic markets to douse the fire of onion prices.     Buffer stocking of fresh onions is difficult and require space, and also weight loss as onions contain roughly 80-85% water. But if one de-hydrates onions in chopped form, eight-10 kgs of fresh onions can be converted into just one kg of dehydrated onions. Normally they are purchased in bulk when prices are low. Last year, wholesale prices were between Rs     750/qtl to Rs 1,100/qtl between January     to September, with an average of Rs 926/     qtl for the nine month period. They are then mechanically washed, cleaned, chopped in different sizes (small, medium, large) and then de-hydrated.     Storage space is reduced to one-tenth and shelf life increased in years. The beauty of dehydrated onions is that when you put them in water, they absorb water and bounce back to almost the shape of fresh onions. Currently, about 1.5 lakh tonnes of onions are being dehydrated and exported to Japan. The price is Rs 150/kg for dehydrated onions, equal to Rs 15/kg for fresh onions. Maharashtra, Karnataka, Delhi and Gujarat, with large production and demand, can store this equivalent to half a million tonnes of fresh onions and release them in times of crisis, usually in September-October. The processor has already made profits as he is buying fresh at less than Rs 10/kg. Anything above Rs 15/kg is the margin and cost of the distribution to home delivery. And this can be done round the year! This would also give a fillip to our nascent food processing industry, stabilize the prices for farmers and consumers, and would be a long-term solution. The company that is doing it today is Jain Irrigation and we need perhaps five more similar companies in the country. And that is where public policy has to come into action to incentivize the setting up of such plants, or use the existing ones for longer periods, to create a win-win solution. Are any of the chief ministers of these four states ready to walk this path? The author is chairman of the Commission for Agricultural Costs and Prices 
Price of tomato rises in tandem with onion Bella Jaisinghani TNN Mumbai: In a sign that a well-oiled vegetable cartel is at play across wholesale and retail markets in the city, the price of tomato has inexplicably reached an absurd high of Rs 45-50 per kg. Traders blame unseasonal rain and Cyclone Phailin for short supplies.     The synchronisation of onion and tomato price hikes deserves close scrutiny. TOI had reported in January 2011 how tomato followed onion. Both came to cost Rs 45-50 per kg mid-winter when the average rate is Rs 10-12. The two are running in tandem this year as well with the new average settling to Rs 20-25.     On Saturday, the wholesale rate for the best quality tomato was Rs 16-22 in the Agricultural Produce Market Committee, Vashi. Lower varieties, which are more abundantly available than the costly ones, sold for as little as Rs 2.50-3.00 per kg in state mandis. Yet, under the APMC law, it is the costliest variety that determines the day’s wholesale rate. Naturally, retailers take their cue from here.     Across Andheri, Pali Market in Bandra, and Matunga, tomato now costs Rs 45-50 per kg. Javed Memon Haroon, one of the largest tomato wholesalers in APMC Vashi, said prices are not expected to normalise in the near future. “After all, the government has located the wholesale market in Vashi, which is so far away from Mumbai. Retailers incur huge costs on transportation. They also spend money on eating out when they come here. All this drives up costs.”     When TOI said the cost of transportation could not be more than Rs 2 per kg, Memon said the crop in south India had been destroyed by rain. “Much of our Nashik produce is being diverted there, and to Orissa which suffered under Cyclone Phailin,” he said.     Later, he agreed that if market rates were more than double the wholesale price, then retailers probably kept high profit margins.     In Matunga (E), vendor Rajendra Kesarwani was selling tomato for Rs 50 per kg. “The wholesale rate itself is Rs 36. I think customers cannot expect prices to reduce for a month because wholesale traders release vegetables frugally in the run-up to Diwali. They open new trading accounts during the festival so they like to make money after that,” he says.
SUNDAY SPECIAL A ‘heady’ party Cerebral entertainment is the new wit fix for the thinking crowd who are flocking to salons and idea festivals P 22 Pedal power-less Harassment and traffic hazards make cycling a daunting experience for female riders in India P 22 Onions: Dry them for the dry spell It’s not impossible to get onions at Rs 20/kg. Dehydrating and storing them is an economical way of ensuring that the prices of this vegetable don’t hit the roof during the critical months of September-October P 8 
NEWS DIGEST Cops putting me at risk: Slashed woman A woman who was recently slashed during her morning walk on Marine Drive has said policemen had brought a suspect to her Tardeo home for identification, putting her life at risk. She further said cops had sent her a photo of another suspect at 1.30am on Whatsapp and sought to know if he was the attacker. P 3 ‘99% of 26/11 proof in Pak’: Responding to Pakistan’s demand for proof on 26/11, India on Saturday said 99% of evidence in the case was in that country as the planning, training and financing for the Mumbai carnage were done there. P 9 Now, tomato zooms to 50: Tomato price is rising in tandem with that of onion, costing Rs 45-50/kg in the city. Traders blamed unseasonal rains and cyclone Phailin for the short supply. P 3 UK braces for monster storm: The UK is gearing up for its worst storm in 26 years, with the Met office predicting that a hurricane packed with 100mph winds will lash the country on Monday. It has forecast about 40mm of rain in 6 to 9 hours. P 18 
Muslim clerics say Modi still a no-no, slam Rahul & Congress Rohini Singh TNN New Delhi: Three prominent Muslim clerics have unleashed a fresh barrage of criticism at the Congress, slamming it for mistreating their community, while at the same time dismissing suggestions they were warming up to Narendra Modi.     The leaders — Maulana Syed Kalbe Jawad Naqvi and Maulana Abur Irfan Firangi Mahali from Uttar Pradesh, and Maulana Muhammed Wali Rahmani from Bihar — told ET that while Modi was still to prove through his deeds that he cares for the welfareof Muslims,theCongresswas trying to scare the community into supporting it.     The clerics were especially critical of Congress Vice President Rahul Gandhi’s recent statement on Pakistani agents trying to ensnare riotscarred Muslim youth in UP’s Muzzafarnagar district. “There is no difference between Narendra Modi and Rahul Gandhi. He (Gandhi) has deliberately insulted Muslims. How can ISI agents come to government-run camps? Gandhi has rubbed salt into our wounds,” said Maulana Kalbe Jawad, a prominent Shia leader from Uttar Pradesh and part of the All India Muslim Personal Law Board.     His comments come close on the heels of comments by his uncle, prominent Shia cleric and vice president of the All India Muslim Personal Law Board, Kalbe Sadiq who last week said Modi, the BJP's prime ministerial candidate for 2014 elections, was not a political untouchable and could even get Muslim votes if he changes himself.     Maulana Firangi Mahali, a prominent leader of the Sunni community from UP, accused the Congress of “scare-mongering” to divert attention from real issues.     “Rahul Gandhi’s latest statement on ISI is an attempt to take attention away from real issues of price rise and food inflation. Muslims eat onions also and purchase gas. Those issues matter more than some fairy tale about the ISI,” he said.     The comments cannot be pleasant for the Congress, which will be hoping for Muslims voting for it en masse in the next general elections, in line with the community’s past history of tactical voting in favour of political parties that best protect its interests.     With the Hindu vote traditionally splintered and divided across multiple political formations, the Muslim community could play a crucial role in determining the winner especially in the two battleground states of UP and Bihar. Several Muslim leaders have of late been critical of the Congress for not keeping its promises to the community and also for the rising incidence of its youth being arrested, often falsely they say, in terror cases.     The clerics, speaking to ET over theweekend,dismissed any changeof heart in the community towards Modi, but said the Congress was using his name to scare a section of Muslims. “Modika darr dikhanese asar to hota hai,” said Maulana Firangi Mahali, adding that the Congress run government’s schemes for Muslims had not worked.     He also heaped scorn on the Gujarat CM’s projection of himself as an effective administrator.     “Sirf cheekhne chillane se kaam nahin hota. Doesn’t Gujarat have price rise and food inflation too? Has he (Modi) done anything to control onion prices in Gujarat?.”     Maulana Wali Rahmani, a well respectedleader of the Sunnicommunity from Bihar, said Muslims were not scared of Modi and neither did they expect an apology from the Gujarat CM for the 2002 riots.     “The BJP needs to change its politics for the good of the country and not just Muslims,” he said.
Not raising rates sky high because of disinflation in rural wages: Guv TIMES NEWS NETWORK     After unveiling the monetary policy review, RBI governor Raghuram Rajan’s made it clear that taming inflation is his prime objective, without losing sight of a slowing economy. Excerpts: Further rate hike That should not be the assumption. What we have said is that we are comfortable with where we are right now, based on the environment that we see, as well as the projections we have made. Going forward, if the data come in very different either way than what we think, obviously we will have to take steps… We have taken some actions and that would be helpful. We aren’t raising interest rates sky high because we believe that there is some disinflation setting in which is seen in rural wages. Alot of players have to come in and participate in bringing down inflation. The RBI is not the only player. Inflation & targets It (consumer price inflation -CPI) will be lower than 9% (in March). The RBI looked at both WPI and CPI, although they talked a lot in terms of WPI. We haven’t changed the goalpost as far as WPI goes but we also need to bring in CPI. We can’t live with close to double-digit CPI for an extended period of time. My intention is also to bring CPI within the boundaries of control. Of course, WPI is partly the result of food inflation, partly the result of exchange rate depreciation (and) we have to also bring that within the 5% norm. There is a committee looking at what should be the goalpost for CPI, what should be the goalpost for WPI and what emphasis should we put on one. CPI is what the common man faces it includes health and education. High onion prices & rate hike The rate hike was not meant to quell onion prices. We have no immediate capacity to bring down onion prices. It is an issue. Clearly, demand hasn’t shot up suddenly so there is an element of supply side. Growth pick-up in 2nd half Economy is around turning points. The big uncertainty is on the projects which have been cleared—when they come on stream, they will alleviate liquidity stress in the system. We have seen some pick-up in exports in recent months but this goes against the grain of global trade, which has seen very muted growth. If this continues, it will be very positive. The flip side is that our imports have also come down. And of course, there is agriculture, which should see healthy growth and that will also enhance rural sentiments and related industries. Bank licences for those facing probe Initial scrutiny will be done by RBI officers and an internal committee and their observations will be passed on to a high level committee, which will take a call. But whether there are cases or no cases, we have taken into account everything. NPA recovery We have offered a nuanced view to banks. In case of genuine difficulties, we have to find ways to get assets back on track. Nobody wins if the economy is deprived of a power plant or a road which would otherwise be functional and help the economy. But we have also said that in situation where the promoter is clearly unable to carry that forward or where there is clear evidence of diversion, banks should take action. Changing the promoter is not easy. Banks cannot be solely made responsible for NPAs. There are possibilities for us to ease the way for putting assets back on track and we are exploring that. We will come out with measures shortly. The idea is to get the economy back on track.
Onion markets heading for a glut Abhilash Botekar TNN Nashik: The area under onion cultivation for kharif and late kharif seasons in Nashik has almost doubled over the last year and the surplus production is likely to lead to a glut and fall in prices within a few months, according to the district agriculture department estimates.     The kharif crop, which was planted across 6,626 hectare last year, has reached 17,473 hectares this year. The average area under cultivation every year is around 20,000 hectares. “This will have an impact on the production of onions. The produce this year is expected to be around 3,49,460 metric tonnes (MT) against 1,21,198 MT last year,” district agriculture officer S R Bombe said.     The official also said the late kharif crop sowing had reached 31,197 hectares this year, as against 21,104 hectares last year, with the annual average of 31,291 hectares. It is estimated that the onion production for the kharif and late kharif seasons would go up from 3,32,836 MT last year to 5,92,743 MT this year, and would flood the markets in December-January, when the crop would be harvested.     Though the produce appears to be very high this year, it is just below the annual average.
Nitish is soft on Congress, alleges BJP TIMES NEWS NETWORK New Delhi: As the war of words between Narendra Modi and Nitish Kumar continued, BJP on Wednesday kept up its attack on the Bihar chief minister by accusing him of speaking the Congress's language and being “soft on Congress” even as he attended the Left organized non-Congress convention here.     Calling the third front "illusory", senior BJP leader Ravi Shankar Prasad accused the Bihar chief minister of hobnobbing with non-Congress, non-BJP parties.     “A ritual is on in Delhi which takes place before every Lok Sabha election. This is a quest for an illusory third front but the third front is history. It has no relevance for the present nor any promise for the future," Prasad said. Some people just come together on an anti-communal or an anti-Congress plank before the polls, he added.     “There was not even a whisper from Nitish Kumar on corruption in Congress, or the price rise of onions and other items, and not a word on the malgovernance of UPA government,” Prasad said.
CORPORATORS CRY FOUL OVER QUALITY Probe into cheap veggies for hosps TIMES NEWS NETWORK Mumbai: At a time when vegetable prices are soaring, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) is getting them at abysmally low rates. Onions may be selling at over Rs 80 per kg, but suppliers are ready to provide the bulb to the civic body at only Rs 14.80 per kg.     Such a huge gap in prices has created doubts over the quality of these vegetables, and the corporators have demanded a thorough inquiry in the matter.     The civic standing committee has directed the civic administration to examine the quality of these vegetables.     The proposal to supply vegetables and fruits to civic hospitals and maternity homes was tabled before the civic standing committee for approval on Wednesday. The supply is to ensure diet to patients in these hospitals.     Three suppliers have bid for these tenders to provide 40 types of vegetables to the civic body at an estimated cost of Rs 1.65 crore.     According to civic officials, prices of 39 of these vegetables are low as compared to the average rates in Mahatma Phule Market.     However, corporators were taken aback by the low rates mentioned in the bids.     Shiv Sena corporator Ramesh Korgaonkar said, “Quality of these vegetables is in doubt due to their low prices.”     Following the outcry of corporators, civic standing committee chairman Rahul Shewale directed the civic administration to probe the matter by visiting hospitals as one of the bidders is already a supplier at civic hospitals.
SHORT TAKES EC OKs NOTA symbol design T he Election Commission on Thursday approved the design of none of the above (NOTA) button, which is being introduced for the first time in the Delhi assembly elections. The symbol approved is a circular depiction with black background and NOTA written in white in capital letters in English. The depiction will remain the same in all the ballot papers, whatever be the language of it. Major in dock for marrying Canadian A n Army Major is in the dock for marrying a Canadian national without clearance from the force. The Army has initiated an inquiry against the officer after the matter came to light. The Major, who was till recently posted with the National Security Guards, has been repatriated to his parent unit, which is deployed in J&K. ‘Set up memorial for Indira killers’ A fter the construction of the controversial memorial dedicated to separatist Sikh leader Jarnail Singh Bhindranwale and other ‘martyrs’ of Operation Blue Star, . Shiromani Gurdwara Parbhandhak Committee (SGPC) is now demanding a memorial in memory of assassins of former Indian PM Indira Gandhi. Air hostess sent to judicial custody A Delhi court on Thursday sent an Air India air hostess, arrested for allegedly assaulting and locking her minor maid in the house while she was abroad, to 14 days’ judicial custody. Metropolitan Magistrate Ashok Kumarsent air hostess Bira Thoibi to judicial custody till Nov 13 after the Delhi police said she was not required for custodial interrogation. Bengal sealed to curb veggie prices W est Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Thursday ordered sealing of West Bengal’s borders to stop movement of onions, potatoes and other vegetables out of the state in a desperate step to curb prices. The CM also ordered a crackdown on potato retailers who sell above the government rate of Rs 13 a kg. BSF DG takes charge of CISF T he command of the country's main airport security force CISF was placed under the additional charge of the BSF DG by home ministry on Thursday as its chief Rajiv superannuated. The home ministry issued orders appointing BSF DG Subhash Joshi as the temporary head of the 1.47-lakh personnel strong CISF. ‘No mining around ESZ in Goa’ N o mining will be allowed around the Eco Sensitive Zone (ESZ) of six wildlife sanctuaries and national parks in Goa with the environment ministry on Thursday imposing a ban on such activities. The Centre will also constitute state level ESZ Monitoring Committee to monitor the notification.
‘States must show initiative on food prices’ TIMES NEWS NETWORK New Delhi: While identifying inflation as a key challenge, finance minister P Chidambaram on Friday lobbed the ball into the states’ court, saying they should show greater initiative to tame high food prices as the Centre had little influence.     “There is nothing that anyone can do to contain inflation in food… States need to show greater initiative,” he told a news conference, adding that the Centre can use food stocks to moderate prices of grains and pointed to the initiative taken by the government .     Food inflation has hovered at 18%, with onion prices sky-rocketing to over Rs 100 a kg in certain markets such as Congress-ruled Delhi. The government has repeatedly taken the plea that it can do little to control vegetable prices. In the recent flare-up in onion prices, states were blamed for not monitoring the supply. West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee has ringfenced the supply of potatoes from her state, leading to spiraling prices in some areas. The government has also blamed hoarded for the sharp spike in onion prices.     Although union agriculture minister Sharad Pawar and food minister K V Thomas have not refrained from repeatedly predicting a fall in onion prices, only to get it wrong, Chidambaram refused to make such forecasts.     He said that steps taken by the government to repair the fiscal deficit will help check inflationary expectations in the economy.
‘Hung house in Delhi bad for governance’ Sheila Hopes Tradition Of Clear Majority Won’t Be Broken Ambika Pandit TNN New Delhi: Conceding that Arvind Kejriwal’s Aam Admi Party is a factor in the Delhi polls, chief minister Sheila Dikshit warned that a hung assembly will create unwelcome political instability and expressed the hope that a tradition of clear majorities for the ruling party will not be broken.     In an interview with TOI, the CM dismissed as baseless opinion polls indicating a strong showing for AAP, but seemed to take the new outfit more seriously after having earlier dismissed it as a monsoon pest. She stressed that an unclear verdict would be a reciepe for bad governance.     Hinting at a tough poll battle, Dikshit said she may not hold an advantage but can look forward to a level playing field. On AAP’s entry resulting in a hung House, Dikshit said, “It is a decision Delhiwallas will have to take. A hung house is not a stable government and Delhi has had the comfort of having a party with a majority in power all through. I hope this tradition will not be broken for the sake of Delhi because it will not be good for governance.”     Dikshit pointed to Delhi’s usually bi-polar politics, saying, “Traditionally the Congress and the BJP have been here. There are others who keep coming. There was the BSP in the corporation polls, there have been independents. As far as the AAP is concerned whether it a political party or a phenomenon it is for the people to decide.”     On the possibility of the Congress having to pay a price for soaring onion prices, she said all efforts were being made to moderate prices but said inflation was an all-India phenomena. “It seems uncontrollable and is all over the country,” she said.     The chief minister also challenged the perception that her rivals — Kejriwal and BJP’s Harsh Vardhan — could benefit due to clean images and contested the opposition’s claims that the Commonwealth Games scams have taken the sheen of the image of the state government.     For the full report, log on to www.timesofindia.com 
‘Modi responsible for onion price rise’ Personalized Attacks Betray Cong’s Fear: BJP TIMES NEWS NETWORK New Delhi: The Congress’s offensive against Narendra Modi took an interesting turn on Friday with Union law minister Kapil Sibal blaming the high prices of onions on Narendra Modi.     Sibal said the country suffered a shortage of onions as the Modi government had handed over huge tracts of land in Kutch, which accounts for a big part of the crop, to the Adani group. “Those onions used to come here,” Sibal said.     The day also saw finance minister P Chidambaram suggesting that Modi needed to improve his understanding of economics. “It is good that he is taking interest in economics. As he takes more interest, he will learn more,” Chidambaram said.     At a function he held to mark the launch of his personal website, Sibal said that the Gujarat CM was distorting facts and was running away from addressing the media, even as he invited him for a debate over the UPA’s performance in comparison to that of the NDA’s.     The comment, which came amid public resentment over the spike in onion prices, immediately invited a retaliatory attack from the BJP, with leader of opposition in RS Arun Jaitley scoffing at Sibal’s challenge to Modi for a debate. Jaitley suggested that Sibal was trying to punch above his weight since he was not in the same league as Modi.     “The kind of attendance at Modi's rallies is among the largest I have seen in the last few decades. The Congress has been rattled. They don't know how to deal with the possible outcome of the 2014 elections. Therefore, second rank leaders of the Congress have jumped in to mount a personalized attack on Modi,” he said.     Arun Jaitley also said people had figured out the leaders who are trying to distract attention from the UPA’s failures.     Interestingly, Sibal had turned down the suggestion from the BJP that he should spar with fellow lawyer Jaitley, saying that the leader of opposition was not the PM candidate.     Taking exception to Modi’s telling people to rid the country of the Congress, Sibal said, “Why to free the country from Congress? What has the Congress done? And today, I challenge Modi for a debate on any issue on any platform and in any language, be it Hindi, English or Gujarati. I challenge him to decide the day, the subject, place and language so that all is clear.”     He further said, “He( Modi) will not be able to do so because he has not held any press conference yet then what will he debate with me. Have you heard him in any press conference? He just goes and delivers his speech from the podium. He has no vision. I challenge him to debate on all those issues.”     Accusing Modi of dishing out lies, he said, “If someone wants to be the PM, he must give alternate vision for foreign policy, for education.”
Gold sales in city fall 50% on Dhanteras Bella Jaisinghani TNN Mumbai:Jewellers and bullion traders across the city said Dhanteras 2013 saw gold sales dip by half compared to the previous year. They blamed the falling sentiment on spiralling food inflation, the high cost of the yellow metal and reduced availability.     Trade associations tabulate sales figures on Saturday but anecdotal evidence suggested this was the lowest ebb in many years.     Jewellery stores witnessed a buying trend for silver because customers who wished to make a nominal mahurat purchase settled for the cheaper metal. More people buy silver on Dhanteras Mumbai: Gold sales in the city were a damp squib on Dhanteras. On Friday 24-carat pure gold that is used in bullion (coins and jewellery) cost an average of Rs 30,330 per 10 gm while silver was selling for Rs 50,000 per kg. By comparison, 22-carat gold which is used to make jewellery cost Rs 29,500 on average.     In fact, high-end showrooms in Bandra west were quoting prices for a single gram of gold, hoping to draw buyers. There was no clear preference for ornaments or bullion, with some opting to buy jewellery to wear while others chose to lock their money in pure coins.     Young IT employee Sameer Kale and his wife Asmita came to a jeweller on J P Road, Andheri, with a budget of Rs 5,000. “This is the best we can do, although we are newly married and this is her first Dhanteras,” said Sameer. His bride settled on a finger ring weighing 1.8gm and was debating what else to pick. “The first year of my marriage has taught me how difficult it is to run the house. Onions are at Rs 60 per kg since four months, and today on Dhanteras day, tomatoes have come to cost Rs 60 as well. I am advising my husband to be thrifty,” Asmita said.     Bipin Jain, vice president of the Bombay Bullion Association, said business was down by 50% as compared to last year. “Demand picked up slightly on Dhanteras day, which is heartening since bookings over the last eight days were not encouraging at all. Gold supply is also low owing to the government’s faulty policies. Increasing import duties and curbs have dampened arrivals this year,” he said.     Jain says more people had opted to buy silver. “Even traditionally sales of silver are high at Dhanteras, and this year more so. Those who are determined to buy some amount of gold are settling for small coins weighing one or two grams,” he said.
UP gang loots & kills for onions TIMES NEWS NETWORK Lucknow/Varanasi: With sky-high prices, onions are just not worth dying for, they’re even worth killing for. Or so the cops in UP discovered when they busted a gang in Jaunpur accused of killing the driver and the cleaner of an onion-laden truck the criminals looted last month.     Police said the criminals confessed to the killings during interrogation and said they threw the driver’s body somewhere between Badlapur and Singramau, while the cleaner’s body was dumped in a ditch near Lambhua in Sultanpur district. Police say the gang targeted onion-laden trucks coming from Tamil Nadu and Andhra Pradesh.     So far, five gangsters have been caught, while three are absconding. On Thursday, Jaunpur cops nabbed three men — Bhonu Kashyap, Daya Shankat Saroj and Bharat Lal — from Satrahia Pawara on the UP-MP border. The onion loot was found to be in their possession. Two other members had already been arrested on the special task force’s (STF) tip-off.     The accused told the police that they had also looted a tomato-laden truck and killed its driver in Azamgarh while the cleaner escaped. Sibal blames Modi for onion price rise     Union law minister Kapil Sibal on Friday blamed high prices of onions on Narendra Modi. Sibal said shortage of onions was because the Modi government handed over huge tracts of land in Kutch, which accounts for a big part of the onion crop, to the Adani group. “Those onions used to come from here,” Sibal said, pointing at the alleged responsibility of Gujarat government. P 14 Gang posed as tax officials to loot trucks Lucknow/Varanasi: The arrested gang members who looted an onion truck and killed its driver and cleaner had also killed the driver of another truck carrying tomatoes. But the truck’s cleaner had escaped with injuries. The truck was recovered from Mau district. According to DIG Varanasi Range A Satish Ganesh, the gang had looted the onion truck in Satrahia on October 7. The STF got intelligence about the loot and alerted the Jaunpur police. The DIG said the gang members posed as sales tax officers to stop the trucks. The drivers and cleaners were drugged before being attacked. TNN
BJP selling ‘NaMo’ onion in Jharkhand for 30/kg Kelly Kislaya TNN Ranchi: The BJP in Jharkhand is trying to seize the “onion” opportunity to woo voters in the state. After NaMo tea stall and NaMo stickers, the state unit of the BJP is playing on onions to reach out to the mass at a time when inflation is rising at an alarming rate.     State BJP leaders, under the banner NaMo Mantra Jharkhand (NMJ), sold more than 500kg of onion at Ranchi’s Albert Ekka Chowk on Saturday at half the market price attracting a huge crowd.     “Onion is available at Rs 60 or above in the market and it is very difficult for people to afford. We decided to sell onion at half the price because it is festive time and everybody has the right to celebrate it,” said Sanjay Seth, a senior BJP leader.     This will continue for another four days during which NMJ is planning to sell around 3,000kg of onions. “As Diwali is on Sunday we will try to sell around 1,000 kg of onion, so more people can get it at cheaper rates. Similarly, on the last day of our drive, we will again sell around 1,000 kg of onion as Chhath is during the weekend,” Seth said.     NMJ members are buying onions at the market price and selling them at subsidized rate. Former assembly speaker and MLA C P Singh said, “NMJ members are bearing the loss so that the poor can enjoy their festival.”
E R R A T I C A Poll Dopyaza Ruling parties and rules alike rue the rise in onion prices Bachi Karkaria Moscow has onion domes; we’ve had onion tomes. Ever since its price began getting magnetised by the North Pole, everybody, from Kapil Sibal to Swaminathan Aiyar, has been sounding like the honorary secretary of the Lasalgaon Kanda Vyapari Samiti. The lofty Mr Sibal’s familiarity with the humble pyaz may stem from the regularity with which he is called upon to ‘grace’ festive celebrations at the sabzi mandis of Chandni Chowk. The erudite Mr Aiyar’s economic preoccupations make commodity prices part of his professional constituency. But it’s amusing to hear all matters onion being pontificated on by scribes whose association with it may never have gone beyond the finely sliced accompaniment to their regular tangdi and tipple at the Delhi Press Club. Is it because ‘onion’ and ‘opinion’ are separated only by a ‘pi’?     Most recently even my friend Kumar Ketkar served up a pithy kanda quip: that hoarders had done what the government should have when NAFED predicted a shortage way back in June. He’s normally as sparing in his choice of sparring subjects as he is unsparing of all fascists. But now that this humble staple has entered the ‘politics of ate’, every pundit must know his onions.     From 1980 onwards, it has been the Waterloo of every party – from Janata to Congress to BJP. Indeed, the battle of the hustings is lost on the growing fields of Satara. Yes, the rise in onion prices coinciding with polls is as catastrophic as heavy rainfall coinciding with high tide in Mumbai. To continue with Napoleon, ‘Apres that, le deluge.’     Since everything today seems to centre on him, the BJP’s prime ministerial candidate naturally had to become a kanda-didate. Mr Sibal airily pinned the blame on Narendra Modi. Had he been hoarding them like his ambitions? NaMo, bhai, na. According to the Union law minister, the crisis arose because the investment-greedy CM had turned over large tracts of the onion-growing belt of Kutch to the Adani Group. Mo-detractors may cite this as one more example of Dhokla No. 1’s dhoka on ‘development’. Uh-huh, onion traders may be Gujarati, but the ‘kanda-bowl’ is Maharashtra and Karnataka. These uncommon times need uncommon remedies. So, like CRPF/army battalions being rushed to communal hotspots, Maharashtra’s Congress chief minister was rushing truckloads of onions to Delhi to prevent the party’s massacre in the assembly election. Several such mutations have been witnessed as a result of the mushroom cloud of onion prices. Prithviraj Chavan’s relief convoys could be a gold haul for the new band of brigands now looting lorries bearing this precious commodity. In UP, they killed the driver and cleaner as they made off with the booty near Lucknow, while from Varanasi came reports that this was now an interstate operation. What next? ‘Gangs of Pyazipur’ directed by Onionrag Kashyap? Every point rise is being whooped over by rivals of the ruling party in each state going to the polls, and the political gains of the booming sensex are being wiped out in the lowly sabzi mandis of mofussil towns. Brisk muhurat trading ushered in Vikram Samvat 2070, but we are still to confirm the rumour that onions had replaced dry-fruit barfi as the Diwali gift of choice. It’s become a multi-pronged game changer. Cookery pages helpfully offer onion substitutes. Why, with the bulb so expensive, we may even need to rethink the philosophical-spiritual metaphor. No one’s going to peel away and bin the all-important layers; the search for the inner core can wait. Let’s give the last word to the Bengalis. Their favourite shade for traditional tangail and dhakai saris used to be ‘on-yon skin’ pink. The uncontrollable price rise has created a deeper shade of face. * * * Alec Smart said: “Hope nothing Mars the mission.” bachi.karkaria@timesgroup.com http://blogs.timesofindia.indiatimes.com/erratica 
‘City spends on films, so why not more on food?’ Traders Mock Consumers’ Hardships Bella Jaisinghani TNN     Buying onions and tomatoes for Rs 55-60 and potatoes for Rs 25-30 per kg may have dampenedtheir Diwali, but consumers are now being mocked by traders. Wholesalers claimed much was being made of the spike in food prices and peoplewerecapableof spending more if they could help a movie garner Rs 100 crore. Some even suggested recipes with alternativesfor potatoes andonions.     “I fail to understand why the media constantly complains about onion and potato prices. When people can spend Rs 100 crorein threedaystowatchsilly moviescan they notspend more on basic food items? Are farmers not entitled to visit a mall or buy a motorbike?” said Sanjeev Maniar, an APMC potato wholesaler. Earlier, APMC heads have criticized Mumbaikars “who spend hundreds of rupees on a weekend outing that includes a film and dining out but are unwilling to pay morefor food”.     Both onions and potatoes have a common market in APMC, Vashi, which is controlled by the Nationalist Congress Party. NCP chief and agriculture minister Sharad Pawar had promised a drop in onion prices after Diwali.Instead potato has risen by Rs 4 per kg in the pastweek,up from Rs20-22toRs 24-26, and even at Rs 30 in Pali Market, Bandra. The root normally retailsfor Rs12-15.     Traders have familiar explanationsfor rising prices,likeimproved farmers’ margins to Cyclone Phailin and increased exports. Maniar, for instance, claimed the entire crop of new potatosaplingswaswipedoutin the rainsduetoCyclonePhailin.     APMC director Ashok Walunj had assured Mumbaikars that potato priceswould not rise. On Wednesday he said, “The wholesale rate is Rs 16-18 but we have no control over the retail market. Around 80 trucks of potato carrying 18 tonnes each arrive at Vashi each day and no shortage has been reported.” Customers complain stocks are so bad, they have to discard half the purchase. “It is hurtful to spend Rs 25 per kg and then find most potatoes with rotten black cores,” said Maria D’Souza, an Amboli resident. But Walunj said, “Potatois notessentiallike onion.Every vegetable,beitcauliflower, lady finger, brinjal can be preparedwithout potato.”     Tomato too is dearer, selling for Rs 48-55 in Andheri, Rs 60-65 in Borivli andRs70in Bandra.In north India, it is selling for a princely Rs 100-120 per kg. APMCsaysunseasonal rain has damaged crops and caused shortage. Onion and tomato prices often rise together. Shardul Sinha, a Kandivli businessman said, “When onion rises to absurd levels, families tend to fallbackon tomato andfindthat option closed too. The governmentis a mutespectator,though its own prospects will be harmedin an election year.” Winter veggies pricier too     Indira Rodericks TNN Mumbai: It’s that time of the year when the best cabbages, dark red carrots and leafy greens are available, but seasonal produce is hardly affordable. Most winter specials have reached wholesale and retail markets, but find few takers.     “Rain, which usually withdraws in the last week of September, lasted till mid-October. Plus with rising costs, inflation and hike in diesel prices, nothing can be priced lower,” said Ashwin Patil, a retailer.     “What is the point of having seasonal veggies, when they are priced high,” asked Sharmista Naik, a Sanpada homemaker. “This is the season for green peas and leafy vegetables one usually avoids in the monsoon, but it is not worth the cost,” she added.     “Transportation costs are always on the rise, so it is hard to reduce the cost of vegetables. Also by the time they reach the markets, a certain amount of time has passed. Customers will naturally be dissatisfied with the quality they get, but what can we do about it,” said Shashikant Patil, a trader at APMC. He said prices may reduce in the next few weeks. “Don’t expect them to fall much, but yes, they will be available at a more affordable rate,” hesaid.
CAN YOU COOK WITHOUT TOMATOES AND POTATOES? With prices of these escalating, food experts tell you how to cook sans these two staples Ismat Tahseen and Reza Noorani     First onions made us cry, now it's the turn of the other two vegetables — potatoes and tomatoes — that are skyrocketing. It’s definitely taking a toll on family budgets, with people either waiting for prices to fall or cutting down on using them in their cooking. But don’t lose hope just yet. You need not do away with potatoes or tomatoes in your cooking. There are alternatives that can be used just as easily. FOODS WITHOUT TOMATOES Prices of tomatoes have actually more than doubled. From 20 a kilo they are now touching     50 a kilo. What can one do to replace the sour taste of the vegetable?     A food expert says, “To cook without tomatoes — take a cue from how your ancestors cooked. Look at our traditional cuisines — none of them were made with tomato. Mughlai food traditionally doesn't have tomatoes, neither does the Lucknowi style food, which relies on dahi or nimbu for taste. Anglo-Indian uses circa (vinegar) and South kodumpulli (a kind of kokum) incidentally kokum is also used in Mahahrashtra.” In the North you don’t get tomatoes round the year and the pahadi areas are too cold for it to grow, so for instance, Kashmiri food has no tomato. I have been researching on food in Uttaranchal and tomatoes don't feature in everything there either; dals are cooked without tomatoes. Bengali food does not use that much of it.”     The alternatives? Kashmir uses yogurt, Rajasthan makes use of amchur, In Gujarat they use nimbu dahi and amchur, Gondhoraj leboo in Bengal, imli in Malvan-style fare and kokam or a variant, imli, in Maharashtra . SUBSTITUTES FOR TOMATOES Food expert Navid Akhtar presents options… 1 Tomatillos, also known as Mexican tomatoes, do not belong to the tomato family and can be substituted. They have all the qualities of tomatoes except the acidity making food better. 2 Red pepper couli or roasted paste can be used. This is free from acidic contribution and colour and is close to tomato. It acts like a thickening agent too. It makes the sauce look like tomato sauce. 3 Lemon juice and tamarind water can be used as substitutes, though the colour would not be same. 4 Vinegar can give a sour taste close to tomato. 5 Pasta made with roasted red pepper pesto makes for an equally lipsmacking dish. FOODS WITHOUT POTATOES Prices of potatoes have more than doubled too. From Rs 15 a kilo it has doubled up and is touching almost Rs 30 a kilo and climbing steadily. So, can the rich, comforting taste of this essential vegetable be substituted?     Food experts agree that it is indeed tough to convince people to let go eating potatoes in their daily diets. “There are seven or ten essential vegetables that are an intrinsic part of the indian palette, and potato ranks high among     these,” states food expert Sudhir Pai. “At every meal, you will notice that we consume at least one dish containing potatoes,” says Pai, who feels that it’s not only for taste that potatoes are important, but also the fact that they are the main form of starch in our diets. However, one can always add semolina to the gravy, since it does the job of adding thickness to the gravy plus it is also a great source of starch. Another food expert Bhairav Singh feels that while potatoes are important, they can be substituted with little difference to the taste. Yams could do the trick just as well. Even raw bananas can be used. So, while substituting potato in the good ol’ potatobhaji is not possible, instead make a mixed vegetable bhaji where there are more of green vegetables than potato in the mix. SUBSTITUTES FOR POTATOES 1 Pumpkin mash can be used instead of potato to make patties. Use sweet potatoes to hold the mix together. 2 Yam and sweet potato can also be used to make french fries. Garnish with rock salt and pepper to neutralise the sweet taste. 3 Raw bananas can be boiled and used instead of potatoes to make various different fritters. WHAT ABOUT PIZZA? You can also have a pizza with roast red pepper sauce for the base. Or then, use cherry tomatoes as a topping, which are a cheaper option
Restaurant Review BARS Excuse me for speeding! I am slogging (read writing, eating and drinking) round the clock, now that three books are going to press. I am putting the finishing touches to The Times Restaurant Guide, The Times Caterers Guide and The Times Nightlife Guide 2014. Keeping these guides up-to-date is challenging and fun.     And so, last week, I whizzed in and out of the newest NOBO (short for North Bombay) bars and nightclubs. I got flooded with messages (rashmiudaysingh2014@gmail.com, Twitter @rashmiudaysingh, 9820333663) requesting for SOBO’s new bars.     So I request the dynamic young Rohan Dalal, founder of an amazing new pharmacy to help me assess two new bars. His sporting and vivacious mother, Bela Dalal, who has introduced the exclusive Swiss Sprungli catering into India joins us. We get high on the happy night. THE LAZY DOG Every dog has his day. This Lazy Dog also has the night. And what a pleasant surprise it is too, for many a reason: the clever dual system of booze-pricing, which makes it affordable, coupled with a glassed-in, handsome and comfy ambience at its first bar at Fort.     We are charmed by the spartan cream-and-wood-décor. Walk past the glass exterior into the ground floor’s long bar (mezzanine too). You can get drinks at approximately half the price by becoming a member and paying a one-time patron card fee of 500 topped up by 2,500 (minimum amount) which is redeemable. For instance, Smirnoff is priced at 115 (otherwise 250), Red Label at 165 ( 350), Ciroc for just 275 ( 500) – all inclusive. The cocktails are okay-ish, be it a Mojito or a Cosmo. Go for the chatpatta Kala Khatta Chuski, Peru Martini (rimmed with hing and amchur powder). The chalked in menu on the blackboard offers limited fingerfood. Robustly spiced Tandoori Aloo, Mutton Boti, Dahi Kabab. Chicken Sheekh Kabab, Omelette Pav and the like.     Just like Tsar the dog (in whose memory the bar is dedicated) lazed around, we do the same here. Bela takes time off from her paradise (Alibag) to chill with us. The most recent TLDs (The Lazy Dogs) to open are at Lower Parel; it is smaller but equally pleasant. You’ll see people of mixed     in all three bars. At 24A, Rajabahadur Mansion, Bombay Samachar Marg, Horniman Circle, Fort. Timing: 6 pm to 12:30 am Call: 91679 49940 At Lobby Level, Tower Two, One India Bulls Centre and India Bulls Finance Centre, Elphinstone Road, Lower Parel Timing: 6 pm to 12:30 pm Call: 91679 42041 RATING: BUZZ 3.5 • DÉCOR 3.5 Night out for two: 1,000 (for a patron member), 2,400 (for a non patron). BOTTLE BAR It has one of the longest Happy Hours in the city with a oneon-one-free offer, from 4 pm to 10 pm. Located in a desolate pedestrian street (near the Bombay Stock Exchange) is this neon-lit bar, lined with glass bottles and dotted with sofas in dark corners. It’s empty and we spend a long time tippling, nibbling and chatting about Rohan’s pioneering Doorbell pharmacy, which not only helps customers track and refill their medicines in a timely and stress-free manner (through a dedicated pharmacist), but also delivers all over the city.     Bottle Bar’s Tiger Ramp (vodka-based), Long Island Iced Tea and the stiff Blood On The Rooftop (tequila, rum, vodka, gin) are recommended.     It serves okay-ish ‘paneer satay, cheese corn’ kind of fare (pure vegetarian, please note). Ask for the Open Cheese Roomali (standing like a large bowl and sprinkled with tangy onion, tomato and coriander leaves). Priced on the expensive side and located off the beaten track, the bar still has to pick up in terms of popularity. Note: It holds a Ladies night (Tuesday), Karaoke (Wednesday), Comedy (Thursday), Bollywood (Friday) and DJ night (Saturday). A t F i r s t F l o o r, R a j a b a h a d u r M a n s i o n , A m b a l a l D o s h i M a r g , N e a r B o m b a y S t o c k E x c h a n g e , Fo r t Timing: 11:30 am to 1 am Call: 022-2210 0100 RATING: BUZZ 2 • DÉCOR 3 Night out for two: 4,000
...‘But why are they silent on scams?’ Anuja Jaiswal & Vishwa Mohan | TNN Kanker/Jagdalpur (Bastar): Narendra Modi on Thursday lost no time in taking on Sonia Gandhi after she spoke at Kondagaon, saying her claim that Congress does not boast but delivers glosses over mention of a series of scams. Referring to Sonia, Modi said: “Today madam is also here. She says Congress does not talk but works. Yes, Congress remains silent on all the scams. Did she tell you anything about the 2G scam or Coalgate?”     Playing on the Congress symbol, he said the ruling party at the Centre indulged in “haath ki safai (cleaned up the coffers)”. Alleging a scam in almost every deal sanctified by the UPA government, he warned voters not to vote Congress, else all would be lost.     Kondagaon and Kanker, venues of Sonia and Modi’s public meetings, were just 85km apart but their speeches heated up Bastar’s poll atmosphere both accusing the other of divisive tactics for political gains.     He accused Congress of raising the bogey of communalism before polls to exploit sentiments and urged people to vote for development. “Keep only development as your goal and see how your lives change.”     In Jagdalpur, Modi touched a chord when he spoke on rising onion prices. “Congress has snatched onions, the poor people’s food. It is now time to snatch power from them. Modi seemed aware that while steep onion prices were pinching everyone, “it hurts more in a region where over 70% of the population gets rice at Rs 2 per kg, gram at Rs 5 a kg and pulses at Rs 10 a kg but the kitchen staple at Rs 80 per kg. People are looking for lockers for onions.” Sensing the poor tribal’s dependence on rice, salt and onion, he said, “I may be in Delhi or Gujarat, but I understand your troubles,” he said. Using the analogy of a growing child whose future depends on how he or she is nurtured during 13 to 18 years of his or her age, Modi urged people to vote BJP so that it can come to power again for five years and help the state grow during its 13th to 18th years. Urging people not to get swayed by Congress propaganda, Modi said that Congress has always divided the nation for political gains. He promised that in next five years Chhattisgarh could surpass Gujarat on all benchmarks. “Madamji (to Sonia) our ancestors believed you (Congress) but now we all know what you are. The youth of today is awakened and won’t b e l i eve yo u r lies.”
Onion prices up 22% at Lasalgaon, supply still low Tushar Pawar TNN Nashik: The average wholesale onion prices at the country’s largest onion market at Lasalgaon Agriculture Produce Market Committee increased by Rs 21.95 per cent to Rs 5,000 a quintal on Friday, due to rise in demand and comparatively short supply.     In district APMCs, the average wholesale onion prices were recorded in the range of Rs 4,951 to Rs 5,000 a quintal on Friday, against the range of Rs 4,100 to Rs 4,551 a quintal on Thursday. In retail markets across Nashik, better quality onions were sold in the range of Rs 50 to Rs 60 a kg on Friday.     The minimum and maximum prices at Lasalgaon APMC were recorded at Rs 2,000 and Rs 5,500 a quintal, respectively. Around 4,000 quintals of onions were auctioned at Lasalgaon on Friday. Market sources said although the arrival of fresh Kharif crop has been increasing gradually and reached 4,000 quintals a day at Lasalgaon, against 2,000 quintals last week, the supply still remains low. The rates will remain high until the Kharif crop arrival is regularized to fulfill the demands at the market.
FATHER’S BEST From puran poli to patti samosas, Mumbai men are cooking up a storm Cooking A Daily Passion, Not Just A Weekend Hobby For These Men Mithila Phadke TNN     Aconversation about food with VS Sundaram leaves you richer by at least four recipes. Every other question — from the first dish he ever cooked, to the one that took the longest to master — produces an animated narration of how the preparation came to be. “For the sambhar, you need white pumpkin, drumstick and a type of root called ‘koka’”, begins the septuagenarian, when asked about his foremost foray into the kitchen. “You fry chopped small onions in coconut oil, soak the tamarind for 15 minutes, then prepare the dal separately.” Sundaram has also jotted down recipes in five fat notebooks over the years. While some are from cookery shows in Tamil and Malayalam, many are his own inventions. From first making rasam as a teenager, to rustling up lunch and dinner at his Borivali home today, Sundaram’s culinary enthusiasm spans over six decades.     With a host of television competitions and workshops suddenly making it trendy to be a guy who cooks, weekend experiments with Mediterranean chicken and spaghetti carbonara are fast gaining ground. But for those like Sundaram, cooking isn’t a Sunday indulgence or an occasional hobby. It’s a regular — sometimes tedious, mostly enjoyable — part of the day, and they have been doing it long before the advent of prettily shot food-shows.     “I started cooking when I was about 15 years old,” recalls Sundaram. “My elder brother and I were living with our grandmother, and she was an expert.” When paati fell ill, she asked her younger grandson to help out in the kitchen. He debuted with sambhar, picked up from observing granny cook. The experiment was successful. “I was congratulated like anything by her,” he adds, grinning. “‘God bless you. Future will be bright for you.’”     While he then continued making stray forays into the kitchen, it was after marriage that it became an everyday activity. His wife was a teacher and left for work at 6am. Sundaram, whose office hours began later, began packing his own dabba. “I didn’t like the canteen food,” he says. “So I used to cook in the morning, and also keep some for my wife’s lunch. She would come home around noon.”     After retirement, Sundaram took over the kitchen, cooking lunch and dinner through the week. Today, it’s only when he visits Belgaum for a few weeks every year, tending to his organic farm, that his wife cooks the main meals.     Stay-at-home dad Ajay Bhandari takes charge of dinner for his 18-month-old twins and banker wife. The 45-year-old often refers to recipes in newspaper supplements, and lends his own twist to tried-and-tested favourites. “Some days ago, coriander prices had fallen after a long time,” he says. “I bought a huge bunch and was wondering what to do with it.” He made kothimbir vadis, but steamed them before frying, so that they turned out looking like dhoklas.     Bhandari is matter-of- fact about cooking daily, and doesn’t consider men venturing into the kitchen as a ground-breaking expedition of sorts. Shaking up the menu, he says, is a necessity when you’re cooking every day, especially for toddlers. “For example, the kids like bhindi a lot,” Bhandari says. “So sometimes, I add potato to the sabzi, or dried coconut, or gravy of some sort.” Occasionally, the trial runs are hit-and-miss. “A lot of effort goes into each dish so when something doesn't work well, I do feel a bit low,” he admits. “But then I try to present it in a different manner, hoping the family likes it the next time.”     Balancing inspiration with individual preferences is also a challenge that Chandra Shekhar Ghildiyal has learnt to handle. The 41-year-old design consultant cooks everything from “boring assembly sandwiches” and banana muffins to his take on patti samosas, made with leftover chapattis, sabzi stuffing and cheese. “When you have a school-going kid, they are always going to ask for something ‘different’”, Ghildiyal explains. “So you constantly need to think of something new, which is also nutritious.”     At the Sundaram household, wife Vijaya protests that while she likes most of her husband’s inventions, the fare can occasionally veer into the too-spicy territory. Sundaram indignantly brushes off the charge. “I can cook non-veg dishes and also Chinese,” he adds slyly, as Vijaya shakes her head. “But that is all banned here!” Sundaram remembers to mention however that he can’t top his wife’s snacks and sweets. This earns him a conceding smile. Peace is restored again.     The idea of men cooking, adds Ghildiyal, is a practical need today that can’t be shrugged off. “As the lines between the roles of men and women are getting increasingly blurred, knowing how to cook is a necessity. Men just can’t get away with saying that they won’t go into the kitchen anymore.”
S N A P J U D G M E N T
CM TO MEET PM, SEEK NOD FOR KEY PROJECTS Chief minister Prithviraj Chavan and his colleagues in the state administration are meeting Prime Minister Manmohan Singh in Delhi on Wednesday to discuss crucial development projects and administrative decisions. People with knowledge of the agenda said Indu Mill land and Navi Mumbai airport would be top-priority issues and there might even be some concrete decisions to impress people ahead of the general election Airport at Navi Mumbai | CM will seek final go-ahead for global tender process to appoint developers for Navi Mumbai airport and a decision on how much shareholding should be there for developer in project cost Churchgate-Virar Elevated Rail Corridor | Whether to go ahead with cash contract or with private partnership by offering more FSI is to be decided Agriculture | State is demanding a firm decision on restricting import and export of agricultural products such as sugar and onion to check hoarding by farmers and traders, which affects retail prices Coastline | A discussion will be held on Centre’s draft proposal to extend coastline up to point where saline water streams flow on land instead of 1-km distance from coast. State leaders say this move will block development on land worth over Rs 35,000 crore in Navi Mumbai Indu Mill Land | Expedition of process of handing over land to state for Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar memorial will be sought. The state wants a decision before Ambedkar’s death anniversary on December 6 to avoid wrath of his followers Shivaji Statue | Need directives from PM to various departments to give 45 different permissions required to build statue in sea near Raj Bhavan Coastal Road | State is seeking in-principle nod so that final drawings can be made and submitted for permissions. Plan requires amendment in Environment Act
Costly veggies push retail inflation to double digits TIMES NEWS NETWORK New Delhi: Retail inflation returned to double digits in October after seven months following a surge in the prices of vegetables and other food items, posing fresh worry for the government facing elections in key states and national polls next year.     Data released by the statistics office on Tuesday showed retail inflation, as measured by the consumer price index, rose an annual 10.09% in October, increasing from the previous month’s 9.84%.     It hit the double-digit mark both in urban and rural areas. The inflation rates for rural and urban areas for October 2013 were 10.11% and 10.20%. Final inflation rates for rural and urban areas for September 2013 were 9.71% and 9.93%. Industrial production grows by 2% in Sept T he IIP showed hints of a rebound in September, rising 2%, driven by strength in key infrastructure sectors. However, the overall picture still remained sluggish. P 19 Re falls for 5th straight day, sensex too down R upee fell to a near 9-week low on Tuesday, extending its losses for a fifth session. It closed at 63.7/$ compared with 63.2 on Monday. The sensex also fell 209 points. P 19 Tough for RBI to reduce rates New Delhi: The key driver for the surge in retail inflation were vegetable prices, which shot up 45.67% yearon-on year in October. Vegetable prices have remained a pressure point for several months, with onion, tomato and potato prices spiralling due to supply problems.     Eggs, fish and meat rose an annual 11.78% in October, while fruits shot up 12.84% year-on-year. Cereal prices rose 12.05%. The overall food and beverage inflation in October stood at 12.56% yearon-year, highlighting the stress on the household budget as food is a vital chunk of monthly expenses.     Stubborn retail inflation, along with pressure on wholesale prices, makes it difficult for the Reserve Bank of India to cut interest rates and ease the pain of households reeling under the burden of soaring prices and costly monthly payouts on mortgages and vehicle loans.     RBI governor Raghuram Rajan, in his latest monetary policy review, has said that he expects retail inflation to remain above 9% for the remaining part of the year. The RBI has raised interest rates in the face of price pressures.
DISTANT DREAM Govt claims on veggie prices fall flat as aam aadmi suffer Rates Of Onions, Potatoes & Tomatoes Bring No Succour Dipak Kumar Dash TNN New Delhi: The government’s claim that prices of onion, potato and tomato would come down soon have fallen flat. While price of onion is hovering around Rs 70 a kg, tomatoes cost Rs 60-70 in most north Indian cities. Potato prices have increased in almost all cities barring Ludhiana and Amritsar.     A comparison of retail prices in the last 12 days based on details provided by the price monitoring cell of consumer affairs ministry shows that tomato prices increased by Rs 18 per kg in Delhi while potato prices rose Rs 4 a kg. Prices of onion, tomato and potato went up in other cities, including Chandigarh, Lucknow, Kanpur, Dehradun and Indore. However, retail prices of these veggies remained stable in Mumbai.     This, despite government functionaries, including food and consumer affairs minister K V Thomas, saying prices would start moderating after Diwali. Centre’s advisory to states to crack down on hoarders and middlemen making a killing has not worked.     Sources said while shooting tomato prices was due to incessant rain that damaged the produce in many parts of the country, particularly in hill states and eastern region, traders were making the maximum profit. This is evident from the fact that on Tuesday, while the wholesale tomato price in Delhi was Rs 33 per kg, the retail price was Rs 60. In Amritsar, it was no different. Against wholesale prices of Rs 35 per kg, tomato was selling at Rs 80 per kg in the retail market. However, both wholesale and retail potato prices have remained constant in cities of Punjab.     Sources said potato prices are on the rise as farmers have put a check on the harvest so that they keep getting good prices for some more time. “Last year they had to sell potato at less than a Re per kg and farmers even threw tonnes on roads for not getting good price,” said an official. Prices lead to looting in Malda market L ike ration riots that singed Bengal in 2007, public anger over price rise again seems to be spreading like wildfire. People looted three more weekly haats in Malda on Tuesday, triggering panic among vegetable traders who have threatened to call a strike unless they get police protection.     Those who looted Dharampur, Achintola and Balupur bazaars on Tuesday are ordinary people driven to desperation by the unbridled rise in prices of vegetables, including potato. On Monday, villagers had looted the Sovanagar haatafter a quarrel with potato sellers. The fire spread to Dharampur in Manikchak the next day, with people ransacking stalls and running off with all the vegetables. The administrationplayed it down calling it a mere scuffle between a seller and some customers. TNN
Restaurant Review D’BELL Global Dear Sachin ( aka Tendliya/ Sach/ Master),so what if I’m not a cricket fan? But like the rest of the world, I am also paying a tribute to you. The reason? I am bowled over by your being a dyed-in-the-drool foodie (you even had your own restaurant near the Gateway of India). And so, in this historic week, we dine at Mumbai’s newest, two day-old restaurant, and dedicate the review to you. And sometimes, fact is even more fabulous than fiction, because in this same week of November 1989, you made your debut. And it was then that both Salil Ankola, swashbuckling cricketer and actor, and Ayaz Memon, highly respected TV host and author, were with you in your very first Test match in Karachi. Nobody would’ve dreamt that the 16 year old boy (who loved food, especially seafood – everything from bombil to Peking duck; and Kapil Dev’s wife’s chicken curries) would turn into the     legend you are today. While Salil (was your tourroommate) and debuted as the fastest bowler, Ayaz spent a month and a half covering your first match-series, and has the fondest memories of you. As does Salil, who can never forget how you watched his TV shows. So here we are then cheering you, our cricketing icon and also a foodie-extraordinaire. What better way to do it than in Mumbai’s newest-ever restaurant? FOOD…TEST-ING TIMES VFM… Value for money fare ( 1,200 meal for two) in the swanky, glassed in highceilinged India Bulls centre, pretty much sums up the global fare here. We eat our way through the predictable kind of Global buffet ( 530 AI) Kung Pao Chicken Penang, Soup, Salad, Starters, Live Pasta Station etc. The aldente pasta surprises and it is the perfectly sauced penne Arrabiata which comes up tops. The live stations change (Kawakswe, fried chicken etc). We are most delighted with our a la carte dish of medium-rare beef ( 350), crusted with fresh coriander pink and green pepper and grilled on a lava stone.     Starters of deepfried mushrooms oozing cheese, onion rings, spicy-sweet-saucy chicken wings, bacon-wrapped chicken are adequately made. The scarmoza stuffed flavoursome chicken, crisp fish ’n’ chips are equally good. Though the desserts are outsourced, the soft cheesecake, tiered chocolate mousse are both good. Plenty of sandwiches (okayish, multi grain spicy chicken one). Sunday brunch ( 689)serves up 3 live stations. MINUS POINTS… LBW We need more dishes for veggies, (only three mains and one was unavailable. The overcooked cottage cheese steak took really long to be served). Overdone rawas, dryish tiramisu and acoustics which do not absorb the noise, are the minus points here. DÉCOR… THE TURF Walk into the glassed in, gleaming lobby of One India Bulls and into this L-shaped airportlounge look-alike cafe. Wooden table, tiny bookshelves with cookbooks and Brittanicas. Humdrum, but pleasant surroundings. SCORE CARD D’Bell’s hugely advertised café and lounge bar opened on 9th November. It’s emergence belongs to Mumbai’s boomlettrend of large,fashionable places in commercial buildings (India Bulls and BKC). The lunch buffet and global a la carte menu offer dishes that can be patchy, while some make the leap ( eg pepper crusted steak). Open through the day (fully-stocked bar), a diner can assemble an enjoyable meal in the contemporary dining room. It’s the VFM pricing which makes it a worth visiting neighborhood place. We raise a toast to welcome this eatery and a bigger one for our foodie and global legend. Cheers! TIMES FOOD GUIDE D’Bell Tower 2B, Lobby Level, One Indiabulls Center, Jupiter Mills Compound, Elphinstone Call: 022-6537 4666 Timings: 8 am to 1.30 am Price: Meal for two is 1,200 RATING: • Food: 3.5 • Service: 3.5 • Décor: 3 Do you agree? Write your own review and give it a rating at (5) Excellent (4) Very good (3) Good (2) Average (1) Poor GOAN CRAZY Here in sun-drenched Goa, Sachin-mania rules supreme. I’m feasting on it as I am on coconut-infused seafood and the rich, multilayered wedding banquets at the London superstar lawyer Sheth’s wedding. I am armed with the everhelpful Jai Diwanji’s superb Goa restaurant recommendations. Please share your Goa favourites. Email at rashmiudaysingh2014@gma il.com, Twitter @rashmiudaysingh. The columnist visits the restaurants unannounced and pays her own bills
Onion prices up 278%, tomato 122% in 1 year TIMES NEWS NETWORK New Delhi: Inflation as measured by the wholesale price index surged to an eightmonth high of 7% year-onyear in October on the back of spiralling vegetable prices, raising the prospect of an increase in interest rates when the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) reviews monetary policy mid-December.     The spike in prices was led largely by a surge in food costs, ahead of crucial assembly polls and general elections in 2014. The increase in the inflation rate both at retail and wholesale levels should come as a fresh policy worry for the government and the central bank which are desperately trying to tame the soaring prices.     Vegetable prices shot up 78.4% year-on-year in October—onion prices rose by an annual 278.2%, while tomato shot up by 122% over October last year. New supplies will ease pressure, says Montek New Delhi: Data released by the commerce and industry ministry on Thursday showed that the wholesale price index rose 7% year-on-year, accelerating from the previous month’s 6.5%. The inflation rate in October 2013 was 7.32%.     Overall food inflation remained at double-digit level, rising an annual 18.2%. Eggs, meat and fish rose an annual 17.5%, while fruits shot up 15.9% year-on-year. But there was some cheer on the pulses front as prices declined 11.2% year-on-year in October.     Policymakers said food inflation was uncomfortable but hoped that the pressure would ease once supplies went up. The government has spoken about easing supplies in the past but the problem of stubborn food inflation has persisted for nearly three years. It has hurt household budgets and the increase in interest rates has heaped more pain on those paying home and vehicle loans.     Planning Commission deputy chairman Montek Singh Ahluwalia was optimistic that the pressure would ease once fresh supplies hit the market. “I think it clearly remains uncomfortable because of food inflation. Core inflation is still quite modest. I think the food inflation must come down,” he told reporters. “I would certainly hope that the supply situation will improve due to the decision to offload certain stock taken earlier (by the government). Some seasonal spikes in few items will get corrected.”     Retail inflation data released on Tuesday showed the rate had touched double-digits in October on the back of a sharp increase in vegetable prices, fuelling expectations that the central bank may tighten interest rates to tackle the price pressures. The RBI has expressed concern over the stubborn retail and wholesale price inflation and said they were expected to remain elevated in the months ahead     The sharp upward revision of the August reading from 7% from the previous 6.1% raised fresh worries in financial markets about price pressures. “WPI has seen a steady uptrend since May, largely due to two shocks that hit India almost simultaneously in the second quarter of 2013-14—the INR depreciation and surge in vegetable prices,” said Rohini Malkani, economist at Citigroup India.     “Going forward, while the currency has reversed a third of its fall, vegetable prices are yet to normalize. This coupled with the adverse base effect is likely to result in inflation remaining in the 6.4%-7% range in the coming months. We maintain our call of a 25 basis points hike in policy rates in the second half of the 2013-14 fiscal year,” Malkani said.
Inflation-hit Manali hotels shut kitchens Manali: Tourists visiting Manali will find it tough to get food as several hotels here have shut their kitchens due to the rising prices of onion, tomato, potato, cabbage and other vegetables. Several restaurants and dhabas are not even serving onion paranthas for breakfast now.     Hotels are requesting guests to have food outside. Hoteliers say food has become very expensive and causing losses to them. “We cannot charge our guests more than the listed rates, but high prices have disturbed our budget,” Sushil Chandel, a hotelier, said. TNN
70% pizzas sold in India are veg John Sarkar TNN     India might be the world’s top beef exporter, and its consumption of meat and eggs may be growing, but when it comes to the favourite fast food of the middle class—pizza—veg is the way they like it.     According to Ajay Kaul, CEO of Jubilant Foodworks, which holds the master franchise in the country for Domino’s Pizza and Dunkin’ Donuts, nearly seven out of 10 pizzas sold at Domino’s outlets are vegetarian. Domino’s owns the largest slice of the Rs 2,300-crore organized India pizza market with 67% market share, as per a recent report by London-based market intelligence firm Euromonitor.     And that’s not even counting the umpteen street joints which serve up desi vegetarian pizzas —usually a combination of tomato, onion and capsicum topped with oodles of processed cheese. Veg pizzas rule in ‘meat-loving’ Punjab     Pizza has emerged as one of the favourite fast food options for the middleclass and vegetarian pizzas are driving the sales in India by an overwhelming margin. “When it comes to junk food, there aren’t many options for vegetarians. So, most opt for veg pizzas,” says nutritionist and celebrity food guru Pooja Makhija. “Even while travelling abroad, vegetarians depend on pizzas over any other food.”     In India, the per capita consumption of pizza might still be a measly four pizzas a year compared to Americans who consume 350 slices a second but pizzas constitutes nearly half of all the fast food eaten here, according to market research firm Crisil. Sandwiches are the second choice. And despite the current economic slowdown, the domestic market for pizza is growing at a CAGR (compounded annual growth rate) of 25%, encouraging foreign players to open more stores.     The second largest pizza seller in the country, Pizza Hut, a brand of Yum! Restaurants, is also banking on its vegetarian customers. Apart from operating three vegetarian-only pizza outlets in Surat, Rajkot and Ahmedabad, its extensive menu, even in metros, is dominated by vegetarian options. “Our non-veg offerings contribute only 30% to our pizza sales,” says Sanjiv Razdan, brand GM of Pizza Hut Delivery India. “We couldn’t have ignored such an important businessgenerating segment.”     Pizza Hut recently ventured into Vadodara and after conducting a door-to-door survey, which aimed to crack consumer tastes, came up with a pizza with potato toppings. According to Razdan, it’s not just the regions with vegetarian leanings like Gujarat that are driving the demand for vegetarian pizzas. “Even states like Punjab, which one would usually associate with meat-loving people, are a huge market for our vegetarian offerings,” he says. “Regular orders of non-veg pizzas on normal days are offset by large bulk orders of vegetarian food during religious occasions.”     “When it comes to pizzas, you have to take into consideration the price point,” Arvind Singhal, head of Technopak, a New Delhi-based retail consultancy, says. “Vegetarian pizzas that start from Rs 44 are more affordable than non-veg variants. A lot of people also opt for plain margheritas without any toppings. Toppings, especially non-veg ones, cost more. And veg or not, India is still a very price sensitive market.”
After onions, tomato pinches as prices hit 70-80 in parts of city Bella Jaisinghani & Indira Rodericks TNN Mumbai:In winter, the robust, red tomato usually sells for around Rs 10-12 a kg. This time, though, its price has hit an inexplicable high of Rs 70-80 in parts of Mumbai. Wholesale traders in Vashi blame the shortage on delayed arrivals from Gujarat, and curiously, cyclone Helen, which made landfall only last Friday.     Tomato ordinarily sells for Rs 12-15 per kg round the year. However, throughout this year, the rates have remained high at Rs 40-45 and spiralled further to Rs 60 on October 25. But since last week, tomato has hit an unprecedented high of Rs 70-80 in areas such as Breach Candy, Mt Mary in Bandra, Sitladevi temple in Mahim and Mahavir Nagar, Kandivli. However, in Andheri, Chembur and Antop Hill it is selling for Rs 48-56. ‘Delayed supply led to tomato price rise’ Mumbai: Spiralling tomato prices in the city are being blamed on delayed arrivals from Gujarat. “The tomato crop that normally arrives from Gujarat at this time of the year has been delayed. Once supplies resume, prices will fall,” said APMC director Shankar Pingle, adding that the situation will ease after the predictable 15 days.     The wholesale rate in APMC Vashi on Monday was Rs 30-50. But at Mt Mary in Bandra, vendor Pappu Jaiswal said, “I am selling tomato for Rs 80 because the wholesale rate is Rs 60 and I incur costs on transportation as well. The truth is we only hear of short arrivals—the Vashi market is filled with produce. It is strange how the cost of basic items like salt, onion and tomato has risen so high ahead of the elections.”     One of the largest wholesalers, Javed Haroon Memon, said, “First there was Phailin in Odisha and now Helen in Andhra Pradesh. Both have caused extensive crop damage.”     Tomato prices, though, had risen well before Helen made landfall last Friday. Also, it is not clear how any cyclonic impact in Andhra Pradesh should reflect on markets in faraway Mumbai within two days of a storm. Importantly, the paddy zone has been affected but no damage is reported to tomato.     Considering that low stock is not an issue in Vashi, consumers wonder how such a common food item became so costly. “We expect onion, potato and tomato to be affordable. Now tomatoes are as exorbitant as onions,” said Smita Khandelwal, a Sanpada housewife.
Onion prices likely to dip by January Dipak Kumar Dash TNN New Delhi: After months of scarcity that pushed onion prices in some cities beyond Rs 100 a kg, indications are that by January farmers will end up selling their fresh produce to traders below Rs 7-8 per kg.     While this will come as a big relief to new governments that will come to power in five states, it may lead to a fresh crisis, market experts said, as the “projected prices will mean a huge loss to farmers”. Wholesale prices have already fallen to around Rs 1,700 a quintal in major mandis and, in the next two months, they may go below Rs 800. Retail prices in major cities such as Delhi, Ludhiana, Lucknow, Patna and Kolkata have reduced by Rs 20-30 in the past one week.     “In January-February, when the late kharif onion will hit markets, wholesale prices may be around Rs 5 a kg. There will be a huge supply since farmers can’t store them for over a fortnight,” said H P Sharma, deputy director (statistics) at the National Horticultural Research & Development Foundation.
Eateries, even humble stalls, re-price egg dishes Bella Jaisinghani & Indira Rodericks TNN Mumbai: The 50% increase in egg prices within four months has not just shaken the ground beneath household budgets; roadside stalls, too, have been forced to increase the rates of the staple favourite egg bhurji (akoori).     Mumbaikars, who head out for this snack after an early dinner, are miffed at the unexplained increase in egg prices, particularly because supply is normal and no untoward weather conditions have been reported. Traders continue to offer excuses such as costly chicken feed, a “harsh winter” and the upcoming Christmas season for the hike.     “For the past two months, prices have been rising and nothing is being done to control them. Several families such as mine do not eat fish or meat but we do eat eggs. At Rs 5 apiece, it cannot be called an affordable commodity anymore,” said Sheila Nayar, a homemaker from Nerul.     Non-vegetarian eating houses, where egg dishes occupy a significant place on the menu, are at the end of their tether, even if they buy at wholesale rates.     Parsi specialty restaurant Jimmy Boy prepares several ethnic delicacies that are topped off with fried egg. Manager Sherzad Irani said, “Budgets have gone haywire despite the fact that we revise our rates every six months to keep up with food inflation. We often wait before raising prices, hoping that these wild fluctuations will only be temporary. But weeks lapse into months and the burden becomes unbearable. We were expecting chicken prices to fall during Shravan, the holy month of abstinence, but they did not.”     Over at Malvankatta restaurant in Goregaon, owner V D Patil is trying hard to jugglie the cost of basic ingredients such as onion, tomato, garlic, vegetables—and now eggs. “We revised our rates in the first week of November because it became impossible to sustain the old prices. We have had to increase the price of egg biryani, egg masala as well as the common bhurji, which most people love. Customers do notice. Sometimes they complain but they know that food inflation is hitting restaurants as well as households.”
Eggs 64 a dozen, headed for 70 After Onions & Tomatoes, Inflated Baida Prices Make Omelets Rarer Bella Jaisinghani & Indira Rodericks TNN Mumbai: First onion, then tomato and now the spiraling prices of eggs is giving grief to households. The price of this staple breakfast item has hit an all-time high of Rs 64 per dozen and is expected to touch Rs 70 ahead of Christmas. But more alarmingly, traders said Rs 55-60 price band is likely to be the new average, even after winter recedes.     Sources say the poultry market is dominated by a leading NCP minister whose party controls the APMC. So, like onion and vegetables, the egg market, too, may have been affected by the forthcoming elections.     Since November 15, eggs had been selling at Rs 5 apiece compared to the normal average of Rs 3.50 to 4.00, which works out to Rs 60 per dozen. That record was surpassed last weekend when prices hit Rs 64. On Monday, the wholesale price was Rs 428 for 100 eggs—up from the normal average of Rs 280-300. Retailers normally charge 50 paise per egg over the wholesale rate.     Some influential wholesalers blamed the hike on farmers who are allegedly burdened with costly chicken feed. ‘I’ve never sold eggs for 5 apiece before’ Price Seen At 55-60 A Dozen After Winter Mumbai: After onions and tomatoes, now eggs are burning a hole in Mumbaikars’ pockets as prices in some areas have touched Rs 64 for a dozen compared with Rs 44-48 across the city last year.     Certain low-income households had come to rely on this most basic of non-vegetarian items when vegetables had become expensive. Now, even this option is being snatched away. Beginning July 2013, prices rose to Rs 50. November has thrown up a crisis situation, though. The traders said the immediate trigger is increased demand during winter and the upcoming Christmas season.     Those in the poultry business said this hike is unprecedented in Mumbai’s history. “I have been in the business for 40 years and never have eggs sold for Rs 5 apiece. The wholesale rate is Rs 428 for 100 eggs. It may rise to Rs 430-440,” said Aftab Ahmed Khan, president of the Mumbai Egg Traders’ Association. “I think Rs 55-60 will remain the new average, even     after the winter     demand reduces. After all, input costs of chicken feed and transportation have gone up considerably.”     Just as APMC’s wholesale vegetable traders quote minor fluctuations in rainfall for the rising cost of vegetables, the poultry industry tracks temperature charts.     Khan rivals the weatherman when he says, “Northern India, particularly UP and Bihar, is in the grip of a cold wave. In fact, given that we had arobust monsoon we may even have a prolonged winter. So prices will remain high through December.”     Mumbai receives its supply of eggs from Hyderabad in Andhra Pradesh and Namakkal in Tamil Nadu.     Khan says these towns are diverting Mumbai’s quota to the north, causing a shortage in the city.     However, retailers in the city as well as in Navi Mumbai say supply is unaffected. Raees Mohammed of Rehmat Egg Centre in Vashi sells a dozen eggs for Rs 58 but a single egg costs Rs 5. “There is no problem with supply. Prices do rise marginally this time of the year, but this season the increase has been exceptionally high. By Christmas, we expect prices to peak to Rs 70 before they start to reduce,” he said.     Likewise, Naushad Ansari of Zeeshan Egg Merchant in Nerul is waiting to see the quantum of increase. “Right now I am selling for Rs 54 since I have low margins but there are dealers who charge Rs 62 as well. Prices vary all over Navi Mumbai, there is no uniformity.”     Worse may be in store. Nasir Sayyed of Bharat Eggs agrees with fellow traders who say prices will rise further in late December-early January.
Onion prices in Lasalgaon hit 5-month low Tushar Pawar TNN Nashik: The average wholesale onion prices at the country’s largest onion market, the Lasalgaon Agriculture Produce Market Committee (APMC), declined by Rs 100 to Rs 1,600 a quintal on Tuesday — the lowest price in five months.     The previous low of Rs 1,750 a quintal was recorded on July 4. Last year, the lowest average wholesale price was Rs 1,208 a quintal, registered in December.     In the district APMCs, the average prices were recorded in the range of Rs 1,600 to Rs 1,751 a quintal on Tuesday, against Rs 1,300 to Rs 1,700 a quintal on Friday. In the retail market, good quality onions were sold in the range of Rs 20 to 25 a kg.     According to market sources, the average wholesale prices at Lasalgaon have declined by almost 68% in one month, from Rs 5,000 a quintal on November 8 to Rs 1,600 a quintal on Tuesday, because of the increase in arrival of the kharif crop.     “The regular arrival of the crop, which was in the range of 13,000 to 14,000 quintals a day last week, has increased to 18,000 quintals a day. The average prices are expected to decline to Rs 1,300 to Rs 1,400 a quintal by the end of this week,” they said.
Onions and tomatoes ease to 40 per kg Bella Jaisinghani TNN Mumbai: Three months after onion prices peaked to Rs60 per kg, fresh winter arrivals have thawed the freeze a bit.     Wholesale rates of onions and tomatoes dropped to Rs16 and Rs13 respectively at the APMC Vashi on Tuesday. Consumers who had been buying them for Rs60-80 were marginally relieved as retail prices eased to Rs35-40 per kg.     Nearly 62,283 quintals (1 quintal equals 100kg) of onions arrived at state mandis, with an average price of Rs15.96 per kg on Tuesday. Similarly, 18,507 quintals of potatoes came at Rs16.75 per kg. State government fair price shops sold onions for Rs26 and tomatoes for Rs32.     Rates were marginally higher in the open market. Retailer R S Mani sold “good quality” onions and tomatoes for Rs36 at Antop Hill. “Prices will continue to fall over the next few days as fresh stocks arrive,” he said. Localities like Lokhandwala Complex in Andheri and Pali Market in Bandra bucked the trend and continued to charge Rs40-50.     APMC director Ashok Walunj, who heads the onion-potato market, was not too pleased that wholesale rates had dipped. “Prices have ebbed to Rs15-20 per kg but this is too little for farmers to break even, let alone make a decent profit. The new bumper crop has been harvested and they have to release it, they cannot hold on to it any longer. Within a few days, we will see a flood of new bulbs. It remains to be seen if rates fall further,” Walunj said.     A leading tomato trader from Mumbai Central said wholesale prices were expected to dip in the next fortnight. “The Gujarat crop was damaged by rain, so once the new batch arrives, prices will reduce,” he said.     But a tomato exporter from Gujarat said the crop from that state was consumed locally, and it was not sent to Mumbai or New Delhi as before. Tejas Patel of Dominance Impex said from Ahmedabad, “It is true that 40% of Gujarat’s previous tomato crop was destroyed by water-logging due to unseasonal rain during Navratra. But the new harvest is bountiful. In any case, our troubles have no impact on Mumbai as your city sources tomatoes from Nashik. Even Delhi traders who bought tomatoes from Gujarat are turning to Nashik.”
Why This Is India’s ABC Election Inflation explains why voters now think Anything But Congress Ruchir Sharma There was no mystery about what rankles the voters. From the badlands of Bhind in northern Madhya Pradesh to the colourful bazaars of Pushkar in central Rajasthan, the neighbourhood barber, the local carpenter and the small farmer would angrily reel off to the exact rupee the rise in prices for onions, potatoes and ghee over the last five years.     On the campaign trail, talk of inflation trumped other hot button issues such as corruption and unemployment. While it is hard to reduce the complexities of an Indian election to a single factor, it seems inflation played a decisive and yet underappreciated role in the Congress’s resounding defeat in the state elections held over the past month.     Prime Minister Manmohan Singh has now presided over one of the worst inflation episodes in the post-Independence history of India. With consumer prices rising at an average annual pace of 10% over the last five years, India has never seen inflation so high for so long, or at such an unlikely time. India now sticks out as an outlier in a world where many countries are worried about deflation. Historically, India’s inflation rate was lower than the emerging market average, but it is currently double the average. For decades, India’s ranking among nations by inflation rate had hovered in the mid-60s, but lately it has plunged to 142nd out of 153 emerging markets.     The inflation problem says a lot about what has gone wrong with India’s economic model under the Congress party. The Singh government has let fuel and fertiliser subsidies spin out of control and bought wheat and rice at artificially high prices to appease large farmers. It has been building an expansive welfare state, rather than pursuing reforms to boost productivity, which would allow for higher growth without rising prices. The government has also been pushing up wages through, for example, measures to guarantee employment to rural workers. Over the past five years, rural wages have been rising at an annual pace of 15% – faster than productivity growth and higher than in any other Asian country.     Now India appears to be catching the Latin American disease of rising prices and falling growth. As workers come to expect higher prices, they increasingly demand higher wages, leading to a destructive wage-price spiral. Indian households expect consumer prices to rise another 13% next year, according to a survey of inflationary expectations by the Reserve Bank of India.     One reason Indian voters are turning so sharply against Congress is that its policymakers do not seem to understand the depth of the inflation problem. Early on they dismissed inflation as a temporary threat, or a threat only to food prices, even as prices started to rise in other areas such as services. In recent years, government officials posited that inflation is a natural reflection of rising demand in a prospering economy, a view that may be commonplace but does not square with the facts. Singh, an economist, should have known better. But his anti-inflation credentials have long been suspect. The last time India had to grapple with the problem of double-digit inflation was during his much-heralded term as finance minister in the mid-1990s.     Most countries that have managed to sustain rapid growth for a long period – including Japan and Korea – did so by investing heavily in roads, factories and other new capacity that helped to meet rising demand while keeping prices down to less than the emerging market average. In India, the rate of growth in private investment has been slowing due to concerns about rising corruption, corporate debt and regulatory uncertainty – feeding that general sense of an economy going to pot.     The irony here is rich. Many of India’s leading economists have in recent months been consumed by the rather puerile debate between growth and equity. The Congress, true to its socialist roots, has come down on the side of equality, and has ramped up its class warfare rhetoric. But no one is hurt more by inflation than the poor. The next government needs to control populist spending and find ways to encourage new investment, but India’s central bank needs to act too. Up to now, the bank’s mandate has given it multiple and shifting objectives, including ensuring adequate credit growth and securing financial stability, but it is time for India to adopt an explicit inflation target.     The inflation target works by keeping easy money in check, putting pressure on the government to control its spending habits. Research shows that lowincome countries tend to fare better after adopting an inflation target, which is why virtually every major emerging market has done so, with the exception of India. The central bank now has a governor who is much more popular than the Congress government, and has the clout he needs to get tough on inflation.     Whatever India does, it is not likely to be done under the Congress party as the mood of the nation is for an Anybody But Congress or an ABC government. The state elections were billed as the ‘semi-final’ before national elections. The results knocked the Congress party out of serious contention, at least for now and the finals in May are shaping up as a face-off between the opposition BJP and various regional parties. If these parties are listening to the voters, they will make the fight against inflation priority number one.     The writer is head of emerging markets at Morgan Stanley Investment Management.
EXCEPTION HERE
Pawar blames ‘weak’ ally for rout Regional Satraps Read The Big Message In The Results TIMES NEWS NETWORK New Delhi: Agriculture minister Sharad Pawar on Monday blamed the “weak” Congress leadership for its complete rout in assembly elections in four states and the rise of the Aam Aadmi Party, whom he described as “pseudo activists”.     In his blog, Pawar said people were looking for strong, decisive and result oriented leaders. “They do not want weak rulers, but they want those who willformulate policies and programmes for the poor and implement them with firmness,”hesaid.     Pawar recalled Indira Gandhi’s strong and decisive leadership, saying she took bold decisions such as nationalization of banks and ending privy purses, which she implemented with conviction andfirmness.     The NCP chief, who was once in the Congress, said during Indira’s regime, leaders were fully aware of the ground reality. Pawar blamed the party’s weak leadership for the rise of AAP, which made a stunning debutin Delhi.“Oflate, weak leadership at various levels has given a riseto a bunchof pseudo activists who have no connect with ground realities,” he said. “That class of people always willing to give free advice on every matter was absentthen.Suchistheclout of these free advisors that the media as well as the government fall prey to them….We needtothink aboutthistoo,” he added.     Pawar argued the youth drifted away from Congress due to weak leadership and vented their anger through the ballot. “When such confidence is lacking in the rulers,other power centers arelikely to spring. This was the big lesson to be learnt from the assembly election results.”     However, Congress downplayed Pawar’s remark, saying such issues were discussed at appropriate forum. “We do not talk with our allies through the media, we do so at an appropriate forum,” party spokesman Meem Afzal said. Pawar also termed AAP leader Arvind Kejriwal's poll promises as hollow. “We also need to think about the class of people trying to influence and change public opinion through impractical ideas,”hesaid.     The minister saidAAPhad garnered votes by promising to bring down prices of onions, vegetables and electricity rates, but this was not in the hands of state governments. He said AAP's campaign promised a corruption-free Delhi, but the same set of people wanted illegal coloniestobe regularized.
Wholesale onion prices slump, but retail remains high B B Nayak TNN Navi Mumbai: With the arrival of fresh crop of onion in the wholesale market at APMC, bulk prices have fallen to this season’s low—Rs 10 per kg and Rs 20 per kg for better quality. On Saturday, 100 truckloads of new onions arrived at the market, lowering the prices as was expected.     But the new produce had no immediate impact on the retail market as consumers continued to buy onions for Rs 25 to Rs 40 per kg. While the ground reality remained far from expectation, wholesalers sounded hopeful. “The new produce will certainly bring relief to citizens who have been bearing the brunt of inflation, particularly onion prices over the last several months. Today’s price is the season’s alltime low. In the coming days, it is expected to go down further,” said a trader, Anand Choudhary.     However, on Saturday, retailers were seen selling the new stock at old prices, thus earning a huge profit. “There is a buzz that prices have gone down, but I failed to get the onions any cheaper than earlier. I paid Rs 40 per kg for good quality onions. I hope retails prices too come down in the next few days,” said Amey Ranade, a resident.     Meanwhile, onion farmers claimed they were hardly profiting. “We sell onions at APMC for Rs 3-4 per kg, but when we go to buy them in a market, they cost us Rs 20-30 a kg. It is surprising. Retailers are earning huge profits. We should have seamless marketing so that we can direct channelize the produce to consumers,” said a Pune farmer, Nishant Gandhe.
Inflation hits 14-mth high, rate hike likely New Delhi: Inflation accelerated to a 14-month high in November as prices of vegetables and food items soared, raising the prospect of a hike in interest rates when the RBI reviews the monetary policy on Wednesday.     Data released on Monday showed the wholesale price index rose 7.5% in November, above the previous month’s 7% and 7.2% last November. This was also above market expectations of a 7% increase. Food prices continued to exert pressure, rising an annual 20%. TNN Govt under pressure to tame runaway prices New Delhi: Inflation rose to 7.5% in November on soaring food prices. While vegetables shot up 95.3% year-onyear, onion prices rose an annual 190.3% during the month. Although prices of vegetables have moderated in recent weeks due to fresh arrivals, high food prices continue to be a policy headache. The increase in food prices in November was the fastest since June 2010. In the past nine years, food inflation has averaged 10% compared to below 5% in the preceding decade.     The data is likely to put more pressure on the government to tame stubborn price pressures, which have been identified as a key reason for the Congress’s rout in the recent state elections. Household budgets have been upset, while the increase in interest rates has led to larger outgo on housing and car loans.     The increase in wholesale inflation rate comes against the backdrop of a surge in retail prices, which rose over 11% in November, largely on the back of soaring vegetable and food prices. The government also revised upwards the wholesale inflation data for September to 7.1% from the previously reported 6.5%, highlighting the entrenched price pressures on the economy.     The RBI, which has said inflation remains at an uncomfortable level, is expected to raise interest rates again.     “While food inflation may ease in the coming months as supply conditions improve, underlying inflation is susceptible to upside risks as inflation expectations are sticky and may continue to drift up,” said Leif Eskesen, chief economist for India and Asean at HSBC. “This means the RBI will have to maintain a hawkish stance and we believe there is a good chance that it will hike the repo rate this Wednesday by another 25 basis points,” he added.
Now, onion over-supply crisis Dipak Kumar Dash TNN NewDelhi:The government seems to be facing another onion crisis. If just a month ago it was scarcity and high prices that forced the government to almost stop export, this time abundant production and crashing prices is likely to cause unrest among onion growers ahead of the general election.     There were reports of farmers halting business in Nashik on Tuesday as the wholesale price touched Rs 9.5 per kg at Asia’s largest onion mandi, Lasalgaon. Though for the past one month farmers’ leaders and observers had been maintaining that the huge supply can be addressed only by substantially reducing minimum export price (MEP) for onion or scrap it altogether, the government has now reduced it by about 30%.     In November, the crisis of onion was so acute, with the vegetable selling at Rs 80 per kg, that the government almost stopped export, increasing the MEP to make overseas selling unviable. But with the wholesale price of onion now touching as low as Rs 9-10 per kg and likely to fall to Rs 5 in next one month, the government has taken a U-turn to promote export. The MEP has been reduced from $1,150 per tonne to $800.     While farmers have demanded that it should fall further to $300 so that Indian produce finds takers in the international market, experts feel the government and state agencies’ failure to manage the crisis has been exposed.     “There is supply shortage between August and November every year. Steps have to be taken to ensure that the fresh kharif onion reaches markets by October. The government must create more storage space,” said Hari Prakash Sharma, deputy director (statistics) at the National Horticulture Research and Development Foundation.
Onion MEP lowered to $350 per tonne Move To Boost Exports As Prices Crash TIMES NEWS NETWORK New Delhi: Crashing onion prices — hovering around Rs 10 per kg and even touching Rs 7-8 in wholesale markets across the country — coupled with farmers’ protests in parts of Maharashtra have forced the government to reduce the minimum export price (MEP) to $350 (Rs 21,800) per tonne.     This is the second major reduction in the MEP in the past one week to promote exports.     Sources said that the commerce ministry notified the fresh price for export on Thursday after Maharashtra chief minister Pritviraj Chavan wrote to commerce minister Anand Sharma and the protesting farmers’ cause was taken up with agriculture minister Sharad Pawar. For both the Congress and the NCP, prolonged protest by growers could have impacted their political fortunes in the Lok Sabha election next year.     An official statement said that the reduction in minimum export price will not only help arrest the sharp decline in prices but will also make export of onions more competitive in international markets.     “Now, at $350 per tonne, we will see increase in export. There will also be price correction and we expect wholesale prices will increase to Rs 11-Rs 12 per kg. Since more and more fresh onion will reach mandis in the next few months, there is little chance of retail price rising,” said C B Holkar, member of board at cooperative marketing major, Nafed.     Sources said that the production cost of onion in Maharashtra — the largest oniongrowing state — comes to around Rs 11 per kg.
Farmers cry foul as onion prices crash U K Nambiar TNN Navi Mumbai: While onions prices have crashed to Rs 10-15 per kg in the wholesale market and nearly Rs 15-20 per kg in the retail market, farmers said that they were selling their produce for Rs 7 kg and not making any profit. Only the middlemen are making profits, they alleged.     “During Diwali, I bought onions for Rs 75-80 per kg, now it is available for Rs 15-20 per kg,” said Vidya Mohite, an Airoli resident. On Friday, nearly 140 trucks of onion arrived at APMC from Nashik, Chandwad, Malegaon and Lasalgaon. Onions from neighbouring districts like Pune and Ahmednagar, too, are entering Mumbai, said Ashok Walunj, APMC director. “New crop is arriving every day. Since onions are perishable, traders want to dispose them of at the earliest. Hence, prices are crashing every day.”     Sunil Gaikwad, a farmer from Chandwad, said they were getting only Rs 7 for per kg in Nashik. “We are at the receiving end. Only middlemen are earning. The government denies justice to farmers. The situation may culminate into agitation.”     But traders attributed the imbalance to Centre’s wrong policy. Gauri Exports, an export firm in Vashi, used to export five containers of onions every month. But due to market fluctuations, we stopped the export, said proprietor Mohan Nair. Onion’s minimum export prize (MEP) is Rs 21 per kg ($350 per tonne), which is much higher than the rate quoted by Pakistan and Egypt. India cannot compete in the world market unless MEP is brought below Rs 10 per kg.
Veggies, fruits freed from APMCs’ grip Bella Jaisinghani TNN Mumbai: Falling fortunes ahead of a crucial general election prompted Congress vice-president Rahul Gandhi to finally address the issue of price rise on Friday.     His decision to remove vegetables and fruits from the grip of the APMCs (Agricultural Produce Market Committees) sent a wave of relief among consumer bodies and Mumbaikars.     TOI has reported how wholesale and retail cartels are responsible for inflating vegetable prices by up to four times from farmer to consumer. Gandhi reportedly made the announcement after chief minister Prithviraj Chavan made a presentation on the Maharashtra model. Fair price vegetable shops were introduced by state agriculture minister Radhakrishna Vikhe-Patil in July. Industry bodies like Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry have long demanded the repeal of the APMC Act to break the monopoly it engenders. The ratio of price rise from farmer to consumer is 1:4, which means it is the grower and the end consumer who are cheated most.     Consumer federations also welcomed Friday’s announcement. Virendra Singh, chairman of the National Cooperative Consumers’ Federation (NCCF) said, “The movement of fruits and vegetables should be free so that farmers can sell to anybody they wish. We have seen how farmers sold onion for Rs 15 per kg but rates rose manifold in the wholesale mandis.”     Rahul Gandhi’s announcement has understandably shaken the ground beneath the APMC. Market director Sanjay Pansare said, “We are only commission agents, how do we cause inflation? Eliminating us from the scene will drive up food prices further. There are a few private players already but with free trade, more traders will enter the market. They will offer higher rates to farmers by competition but will pass on the added cost to the consumer.” Pansare said the APMC was supplying vegetables to the 125 fair price shops run by the Maharashtra government. “The Centre only wishes to remove the APMCs in order to promote FDI,” he alleged. Singh countered Pansare’s claim saying that India had witnessed record food production in recent years and only distribution was a problem.
EXCEPTION HERE
NEWS DIGEST Gym built with 15L meant for balwadi MLA development funds worth Rs 15 lakh meant for a balwadi in Bandra have been used to build a gymnasium by Shiv Sena MLA Prakash Sawant, an RTI plea has revealed. P 3 Veggie prices plunge: The winter arrivals have pulled down the prices of vegetables to their lowest this year, with peas costing Rs 30/kg, onion Rs 24 and carrot Rs 20 a kg. P 2 ‘Impotence cruelty to wife’: Ruling that a man’s impotence amounts to mental cruelty to his wife, a family court has allowed a 19-year-old Malad resident to split with her husband and get Rs 3,500 as maintenance every month. P 2 Bahraini diplomat leaves: The Bahrain diplomat booked by city cops for molestation and threatening a woman has left Mumbai for his home. P 3 LIC to pay 92L: Pulling up LIC for rejecting the claim of the widow of a man who died of mouth cancer, a state forum has directed it to pay her Rs 82 lakh in insurance amount and a compensation of Rs 10 lakh. P 2 98-yr-old gets new knee: A 98-year-old Yemeni has become one of the oldest to underto a knee replacement surgery. He got a new left knee at Breach Candy Hospital. P 4 
The Uncommon Man: Kejriwal is TOI’s Person of The Year While 2013’s POTY title had quite a few contenders who, in no small way, contributed to making the year interesting, the contest came down to BJP’s PM-designate Narendra Modi and Arvind Kejriwal. That itself is saying something since the man who is now Delhi’s new CM was quite a late starter. Though both Modi and Kejriwal dominated the national mindscape this year, it was the aam aadmi leader who took the title for changing the very idea of what a politician and a political party should be Buzzwords Tarun Tejpal taught us the new meaning of ‘recuse’ and Modi brought ‘shehzada’ back into the dictionary. TOI brings you the buzzwords of 2013 Dream Deals It was a year of slow economic growth and stock market turmoil but some big-ticket mergers and acquisitions made it memorable for India Inc Numbers Game From the rupee’s big fall to the record voter turnout in assembly elections, big and small data that quantified India Top Tweets Tongue-in-cheek tweets that targeted news and newsmakers, be it Rahul Gandhi’s ‘escape velocity’ speech or the spiralling onion prices 
‘NEED FOR RENAISSANCE’ Election 2014: But a ballot at the crossroads Hemant Thacker     The LITERARY pill for Election Fever – Best before April 2014 ‘Into the valley of Elections, Marched the 6oo million’. This New Year, India is at the cross roads of the ballot.     The ‘Ramayan’ of the congress seems to be getting rewritten with not even the Gandhi edifice willing to withstand the ‘tempest’ that has been stirred by the ladles of corruption. The Lok-Pal ‘Trojan’ horse seems to have gallopped into the ‘Adarsh’ stables of despair and discontent .     With the old guard adopting the ‘As You Like It’ approach, the young turks are still like “lake water lapping with low sands by the Parliament” and everyone is awaiting the ‘Coronation’. As Modi, furiously scrubbing away the ‘Macbeth’ taint on his riot hands, is slowly gathering ground, the next battle of ‘Panipat’ is probably worth more then 700 litres of water.     For like Kipling’s ‘Gangadin’, the elections will be furious like the rivers in the north and more like the Robin Hood fables in the south where the good Samaritan factor will prevail. From the ‘Pawar’ of Sachin’s blade, the local ‘senapatis’ will call the shots in the west.     In true Anarkali style ‘Jab raaj Kiya to darna Kya’, Mamtadi can be the ‘Twelfth Knight’ in the decisive count. But “man may come and woman may go” – the citizen of this country still seems to have not fully awoken from his ‘MidSummer night’s dream’. Like the ‘Indian in Wonderland’ he still needs to demand beyond “onions and potatoes”.     The rising prices, the quality of governance, the accountability of public servants— who like Nero fiddle while the economy is burning and quarrel over red beacons and foreign jaunts, need to be addressed.     Where is the Arjun and his Pandavas to protect the identity of Draupadi and where is the Krishna who can guide the battle of Kurukshetra against the 543 ‘Kauravas’.     The spirit in the ‘common-man’ needs to be kindled with the fire of patriotism and with true righteousness he needs to see only the eye of the bird in his cross hairs.     India has to show we are not the Churchillian men of straw. We have to set aside personal gains and ask not “what the country can do for you but what you can do for the country”.     Amassing wealth and power in a cardboard house will be like Ozymandias “King of Kings” – “look upon my works Ye mighty and despair”. The moral fabric is teethering, the Chariots of Fire are flickering, the blood toil, sweat and tears of our selfless ancestors is wasting away because there is no will to enact change.     If the sun is not to set on the Indian Empire we will need a Renaissance amongst the educated, who should “Lead – kindly Light” and the Lord will then be the Shepherd.     The next quarter into the new year should see a resurrection across the nation where that the “have’s” join hands with the “have nots” so that the age to come would say “stands then a man with soul so brave” who stood up to the call of his Motherhand .HAPPY NEW YEAR.     (Dr. Hemant P. Thacker is a Consulting Physician and CardioMetabolic Specialist in South Mumbai Hospitals. Email: dochpt@gmail.com)
Govt struggles with higher fuel subsidy burden TIMES NEWS NETWORK New Delhi: With the hike in the price of non-subsidized LPG cylinders coming in the last quarter of the financial year, several households would have exhausted their share of subsidized cylinders, resulting in a dent in household budgets at a time when they are just recovering from a bout of high food inflation that had forced them to cut down on the consumption of vegetables like onion and tomatoes.     Inflation has been identified as a key challenge for the UPA and is said to be one of the key factors behind the Congress’s rout in four of the five state elections. But the gas price hike has virtually been forced on oil marketing companies as the Centre has been unable to bear a higher subsidy burden given its precarious fiscal health. With general elections barely three months away, the government is keen on frontloading some of the tough decisions.     The latest increase is the third announced during the past month, following the Rs 63 hike on December 1 and a rise of Rs 3.50 a cylinder 10 days later. State-owned oil companies revise rates of non-subsidized LPG on the 1st of every month, based on the average imported cost and rupee-US dollar rate during the previous month.
EXCEPTION HERE
Prices will fall if you stop eating onions, says SC New Delhi:An advocate’s endeavour to get Supreme Court to issue a directive for the central government to rein in rising rates of vegetables like onions on Friday backfired when the SC suggested that the petitioner should stop consuming the item himself for a few months in order to control the prices.     A bench headed by Justice BS Chauhan dismissed the PIL filed by the advocate, who submitted that the Centre had “grossly” failed in controlling the food inflation.     “You stop eating onions for two months and its price would come under control. Don’t burden with these cases. We cannot entertain such petitions,” the SC bench told the advocate.     The advocate, Vishnu Pratap Singh, contended that the Centre was depriving the poor of their right to life and food through its failure to control prices of essential commodities. AGENCIES
90 Udupi eateries shut shop in 2 years Sharmila Ganesan-Ram TNN Mumbai: Vijay Kadam does not judge customers who enter the McDonald’s outlet near Mulund station and ask for a masala dosa. He simply tells them that Vishwa Mahal, the Udupi restaurant they were looking for, has shut. The image of nostalgic customers makes Sudhakar Shettie, owner of Vishwa Mahal, smile from behind the cash counter at a nearby hotel. “We had to lease out the space a year ago for personal reasons,” he says.     All over the city, several Udupi restaurants have begun to lease out their properties to fast food chains and banks. The pace at which they have been shutting down has quickened in recent years due to rising costs and manpower shortage. If, as TOI had reported earlier, 150 restaurants shut between 2007 and 2011, in the past two years alone, 90 have folded up, many of them in south Mumbai, says Shashikant Shetty, secretary of AHAR (Association of Hotels and Restaurants). Red tape, rising costs eat into Udupis     Chandrasekhar Shetty, who leased out the premises of his two-year-old establishment Flames in CBD Belapur to McDonald’s, says, “Four years ago, the restaurant’s gas bill would come to Rs 50,000 a month; today, it is in the region of Rs 4.5 lakh.”     Besides, for grade two and grade three Udupi hotels, which boast a lower middle-class clientele, competition from roadside hawkers is another concern.     There is fear that several Udupi hotels are threatening to go down the Irani cafe road. Several are now on the verge of shutting down. “They are all on ventilators in the ICU,” is how hotelier Shrinivas Shetty puts it.     What’s choking these idli-dosa enterpreneurs is not just the hike in various taxes but also red-tapism, says Shrinivas. Getting a registration licence, he explains, involves negotiating at least 45 to 50 municipal departments. “It's probably easier to get clearance for an AK-47,” says the disenchanted Shrinivas, who owns Aditi Restaurant in Parel, which made headlines in June this year for adding a footnote in the bill that poked fun at the government’s policies. “It was frustration that made me add that footnote,” confesses the hotelier, who had to shut down the AC section of his restaurant after the government included all AC eateries in its purview for paying service tax.     Moreover, the enduring image of the Mangalorean waiter with the trademark towel on his shoulder and pencil behind his ear, is growing scarce. “As literacy is growing, the younger generation finds it beneath them to clean tables and floors,” says Chandrasekhar Shetty.     “It may not be a profitable transaction but it spares me the headache of finding staff,” says the hotelier, adding that even the existing staff from Mangalore is starting to migrate back home since they own houses there and can earn almost as much as they do in Mumbai. Also, since property taxes and other expenses such as electricity and gas have increased, “it is difficult to provide accommodation to staff,” says Chandrasekhar who runs hotel Ramakrishna in Vile Parle.     “Since the common man has to pay 5% service tax and 5% VAT for eating in these restaurants now, he prefers eating on the streets instead,” says hotelier Santosh Shetty. “So these restaurants are leasing out premises to banks and smaller establishments that promise not only a good rent but also overdraft facilities,” adds Santosh who misses the golden period of Udupis in the city, “the time when the mills were alive”.     Between 1960 and 1985, idlis and dosas, he recalls, had begun to beat the city’s gastronomic staple of pav usal and paatal bhaji.     “Though our parents had a nose for business, they did not upgrade their ambience as they lacked confidence,” says Santosh, adding that they were nervous about answering customers in English. But education boosted the second generation to graduate to banquet halls and luxurious setups, says Santosh. However, in the mid-nineties, he found himself renting out his Vile Parle restaurant Shri Gurudev to McDonald’s, which was looking for a street with busy pedestrian traffic.     Inflation has changed prices on the menu card drastically. “Everything from tomatoes to onions is costly and no one’s willing to pay that much,” says a hotelier.     Given the scenario, very soon, Udupi restaurants, whose USP was their service, will have to imitate the self-service models of their competitors. “We will have to use disposable plates,” says Chandrasekar. Already, some hotels, especially those in the Fort area, are experimenting with it.     “Unless government policies change, we will reach a state where hoteliers won’t have food to eat,” says Shrinivas. Perhaps it is to avoid such a fate that a busy Udupi hotel in Thane has now taken off its famous warning: “This place is for eating, not meeting.” FAST VANISHING? Rise in taxes, rents and red tapism are forcing Udupi hoteliers to rent out their space to fast food chains and banks It is tough to find waiters, cooks and junior staff from Mangalore as many prefer to migrate back home With low prices, hawkers present competition to Grade 2 and 3 hotels Some Udupis are now experimenting with self-service models
MEN & MORALS Inflation, not corruption, will be the key issue in LS polls GURCHARAN DAS In the last assembly elections, the aam admi complained inconsolably of rising prices. TV clips showed voters quoting the prices of potatoes, onions, and dal. Pundits put it down to the ‘usual election whining’, but more than corruption, inflation turned out to be the reason for Congress’ defeat. Even though it has slowed a bit recently, all political parties are warned — the aam admi is not going to forget the pain of inflation in the coming general election.     Economists have struggled to understand why India’s consumer prices have been rising 10% a year for the past five years when prices in the world have been reasonably steady. Even in poor, emerging economies, prices have risen at half the rate as India’s. Inflation is complex but it has become clear that India’s inflation is the result of the same bad policies that brought down our growth. Huge government spending without commensurate production has meant that too much money has been chasing too few goods.     UPA II put massive funds into villagers’ pockets. Rural wages thus rose an unprecedented 15% a year in the last five years. Farmers received a bonanza — they got high minimum support prices for grains besides fertilizer and energy subsidies plus loan waivers. Rising wages are a good thing when they reflect climbing demand in a prospering economy. To an extent, this is true of India, which experienced a ‘golden age’ of growth and prosperity till 2011. These rising incomes changed the aam family’s food habits — eating fewer cereals and more protein, fruits and vegetables. But escalating rural wages have also been the result of ‘make work’ jobs of NREGA, which did not create productive assets. Had the same money been invested in factories, roads and power plants, prices would not have risen to this extent.     The obvious answer to inflation is to revive economic growth. To its credit, the government has realized its mistake, and is desperately trying to approve projects that have been stuck for years in red and green tape. But investments take time to translate into jobs and growth. There are quicker ways to tame food inflation fortunately. One of them is to scrap ‘agricultural produce marketing committees’ (APMC), which function as wholesaler cartels in mandis rather than protecting small farmers. Like most of our bad economic ideas, this is a hangover from Indira Gandhi’s socialist days.     Freeing wholesale markets will bring competition as traders and farmers are able to buy and sell freely. International retailers will be able to buy directly from farmers, and with their formidable cold-chains, they will also save food from rotting in the fields and mandis. This will result in higher returns to farmers and also lower prices to consumers as supermarkets will pass on the savings from bypassing middlemen. Economists have been urging the scrapping of APMCs for years. Rahul Gandhi has now discovered this idea, and since he has put his weight behind it, it might get implemented in the Congress-ruled states. Powerful local politicians, however, control APMCs — let’s watch if Rahul Gandhi has it in him to take on this powerful vested interest.     The Aam Aadmi Party’s (AAP) first action should have been to scrap the APMC in Azadpur Mandi near Delhi. It would have brought quick relief to consumers by curbing prices of fruits and vegetables. But it did the opposite. AAP scrapped foreign investment in supermarkets, denying aam admi the potential for lower prices. It did not realize that around the world it is the aam admi who shops in supermarkets because of lower prices. Besides, AAP’s aspiring supporters would any day prefer to work in modern supermarkets rather than in kirana stores.     Of our three main political parties, only the Congress seems to have understood that inflation can be controlled by APMC reform and foreign investment in supermarkets. The BJP has chosen the trader against the aam admi and opposes FDI in retail. The AAP’s leadership, oddly enough, does not seem to be in sync with the aspirations of its followers. It is trapped in old ‘povertarian’ ideas of the Old Left which ensured that India remained an underachiever. Given the crucial role that prices will play in the coming election, can the Congress convert its advantage into votes?
Tuck into a sassy weekend brunch     Chefs at The Sassy Spoon have come out with a new weekend brunch menu where eggs and pancakes are given the quintessential ‘sassy’ twist. Eggs, sunny side up, with dukka (an Egyptian spice mix) and chapati, creamy scrambled eggs on a garlic baguette, stuffed omelette roll with nutty ricotta and a selection of sides are some of the breakfast items on the menu.     The pancakes are a must-try with options like the roasted banana and maple syrup pancake, the tart mulberry compote and strawberry blush pancake. The menu also offers a variety of slushes, coolers and smoothies with the oreo espresso fudge with coffee ice cream being one of the most popular items.     The restaurant has also introduced Sassywiches to their lunch menu on weekdays. Priced at 275 a sandwich, these are different from the gourmet sandwiches available on the regular menu and also make a great grab and go option. The chicken with mint, cream cheese and fried garlic is delicious as is the house-smoked barbeque sauce with chicken.     Seafood options and a selection of vegetarianwiches like the soya and black bean croquette with marinara fresh bocconcini are available as well. All Sassywiches can be ordered on multigrain or dill and onion bread and are served with a salad and a side of a potato preparation of the day.     You could also try some of the special cocktail menu. Drinks like the Smore Fluff, Citrus Creamsicle and the Mon Cheri, an in house infusion of hibiscus, lavender and vanilla vodka with triple sec and lime juice, have all been concocted by the restaurant’s head bartender from New York. The menu will be updated with new offerings depending on what is in season, so the next time you are at The Sassy Spoon don’t hesitate to ask your server what is new on the menu.     Where: The Sassy Spoon,     Ground Floor, Express     Towers, Ramnath Goenka     Marg, Nariman Point.     Call: +91 9920003500.
Wholesale onion price dips to 5 per kg Consumers Fail To Reap Benefits As Retail Rates Still High U K Nambiar TNN Mumbai: The unpredictability of onion prices achieved a new seasonal record on Saturday. A surfeit of onions has arrived in the Vashi wholesale market, causing wholesale prices to fall to their lowest this winter. Onion is selling for Rs 5-8 per kg in the APMC market. However, consumers are still paying anywhere between Rs 15-28 per kg in neighbourhood stores.     This trend is being witnessed almost every year. Either crop shortage—or hoarding—causes stocks to be held up in growing areas or local mandis from June to October. Once this cache is released, prices drop to a seasonal low. On January 26, 2011, TOIhad reported how the onion price fell to Rs 4 per kg in Lasalgaon, Nashik. Even then, the bulb was selling for Rs 25-45 per kg in retail markets in Mumbai.     This time too, customers are hardly reaping the benefits of the fall. At Lokhandwala in Andheri, onion sold for Rs 18 per kg on Saturday, while in Breach Candy old stock—which is preferred by customers—cost Rs 28, an astronomical price by current standards. In Matunga, good quality onion was available for Rs 25 per kg. Only the state government’s fair price shops have been selling the bulb for as little as Rs 11 per kg since the past three days.     Ashok Walunj, director of the APMC’s onion-potato market, on Saturday said, “The price of onion in the wholesale market is between Rs 5-8 per kg. Every day, about 150-200 trucks of onion are reaching the Vashi market. This time, production is high and onion is reaching from Pune, Khed, Jejuri, Ahmednagar, Solapur, and Kolhapur and other states too. Despite the fall in prices, there is not much demand for onion.”     Garlic prices have also cooled down in the wholesale market. With the arrival of new garlic from Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh and Gujarat, the price has fallen to Rs 10-30 per kg as against Rs 70-80 a fortnight ago. Traders said that this year, garlic production has increased threefold.
EXCEPTION HERE
I am not pregnant Roshni K Olivera & Seema Sinha     Vidya Balan married corporate honcho-producer, Siddharth Roy Kapur, a year ago, so who better than her to talk about shaadi ke side effects? Excerpts from a fun conversation with the chirpy actress, who visited the Bombay Times office on Wednesday... Tell us about your shaadi ke side effects. It’s all good. Marriage is something I’d recommend everyone to try if you find the right person, of course. I’m enjoying being married. Just living with Siddharth is fun. We sometimes feel like flatmates because we are in and out. We have not had that much time together, therefore I still feel like we are honeymooning... without the guilt! No negative side effects? I had been warned that a lot of changes happen after marriage and I kept waiting, thinking it’s just one month so maybe it’s too early for the changes to surface. Then I said it’s two months, then six months and after that, it’s been 14 months and nothing has changed. He’s the same person and I’m not bipolar, so he didn’t come in for any surprises either! Someone asked me if he is my best friend and I said, ‘Yeah, maybe a best friend with benefits’. He’s going to kill me for this! But, yes, it is wonderful to be able to say anything (and I really can say anything!) and he’s very accepting and non-judgmental. What has changed post marriage is that I now know aate-dal ka bhav, but please don’t ask me. I know that onion prices have dropped. How would you rate yourself as a wife? If it’s the stereotypical wife, I don’t rate at all. If it’s just a partner, then I’ll go to the other extreme, be immodest and say 11 on 10. So, you are not a nag? Not at all! I’m someone who believes in ‘live and let live’ and that applies to everything. I think I really lucked out because we are similar in a lot of ways. Like, you’ll never see our house out of order because we are both minimalists and we are both very organised. If you are expected to do an intimate scene in a film, would you discuss it with Siddharth first? Siddharth and I respect each other’s professional space and decisions. Of course, as a partner, I would tell him that there’s something like that, but there has not been an opportunity yet. It’s like I’d tell my parents myself rather than them seeing it in a film. All said and done, it can’t be comfortable for your family or your partner to see you like that and I understand and appreciate that. So, I would definitely tell him, but so far there has been no opportunity... shit! Have your equations with your costars and colleagues changed now that you are married to a corporate honcho? I don’t think so. At least, I have not noticed anything, but there are some people who he has a good equation with and who I didn’t know earlier but I do now, thanks to him. Did you have any expectations before marriage about how your partner should be? I didn’t set out to find Siddharth or anyone for that matter, and I think that’s when it happened. Until I was looking, I was only looking in the wrong direction and when I stopped looking, he literally walked into my life. So, that’s it. When you don’t have expectations of how you want your partner to be, you just let each other be. I’m someone who is really finicky about my things and I found someone who’s like me. Just that he’s finicky in a relaxed manner, I’m not that relaxed. You just said you were looking in the wrong direction. What did you mean? Where you shouldn’t be looking! Seriously, I had never seen myself as married. It was only after I met Siddharth that I felt that way. Earlier, I kept thinking that I’d never feel what everyone says one feels when you meet your soulmate. I don’t know about soulmate because I’m not sure I believe in that. But when it came to Siddharth, I just knew that I was going to be with him forever, or at least that was the intention. Does marriage affect an actress’s prospects at the box office? I don’t think so. The way the world is going now, a woman is hotter after marriage to men. They like the forbidden fruit even more now. If you are playing a 16-year-old at 30, then it might be a problem, but if you are not, it’s fine. You’ve done serious films like K a h a a n i and also light-hearted films like Shaadi Ke Side Effects. What do you enjoy better? Both, and they are different. Like in Shaadi Ke Side Effects, it’s real, relatable; it could be about you, about people you know. It has been a very breezy experience as actors. We were allowed to play it out the way we wanted to, by the director Saket Chaudhary. That, for an actor, is such a joyous experience! We had a lot of fun except when there were babies and we couldn’t make noise then. Talking about babies, what about rumours of you being pregnant? I’m not pregnant. I’d have to meet Siddharth to get pregnant! (Laughs) Jokes apart, I’m not yet ready to share Siddharth. Besides, I’m committed through this year, so motherhood will have to wait. After bagging the best actress award for three years, did you miss not getting an award this year? No. I’m happy to be applauded, but I’m also happy to applaud other people’s performances and there’s a lot of great work happening. I had only one release last year and the film didn’t do too well and that’s fine. The only thing is that I couldn’t go to the award functions as I was busy shooting for Bobby Jasoos. Some felt that Priyanka Chopra should have got the award last year for Barfi. Priyanka did a wonderful job and there will always be different opinions. I’m not a martyr... I am happy that I won the award. Given that in the last few years, roles have been written for you, do you think you are now competing with the heroes? Even on Koffee W i t h K a ra n when he asks his guests to rate actresses, there’s Kareena, Priyanka, Katrina, but you are never on that list... Do you know I have never been on any list? And I’m quite good with that because I have never understood this up and down of one year being No.1 and something else the next year. I don’t think my competition is with the heroes. I don’t think I’m competing with anyone. I don’t mean to sound Zen, but genuinely, when I stopped competing with anything is when I started enjoying my work and that brought out the best in me. I'm living in a universe of my own and I’m enjoying that. I love to appreciate other people’s work. For example, Deepika (Padukone) is doing wonderfully now and I’m really enjoying her work. I think there are lots of stars in the sky and there’s space for each one of us. You haven’t worked with any of the three Khans... ever wondered why? They haven’t worked with me either. I have never been offered a film with any of the three Khans. Initially, I used to wonder why, but now I don’t. Someone will have to think of a really exceptional script. Also, I’m enjoying the kind of work I am doing. Invariably, when you have these superstars, it becomes difficult to justify anyone else’s presence. In recent times, I can only think of Deepika, who was fabulous in Chennai Express. She got that kind of a role but she more than justified it. Earlier, all the girls just wanted to work with the Khans, but that has changed now... I can’t talk for other girls. There are only three of them (Khans) and there are so many girls. So, I guess you realise that doing good work is important and you can’t just wait for that. Good work can happen anywhere. After T h e D i r t y P i c t u re and Kahaani, you were called the fourth Khan... While that’s very flattering, I will also say that I’m not happy being one among four! You are very comfortable in your own skin today... Most people have heard me say this that I lost my bearings for a while because I was trying desperately to fit in. I have always been me, but at that time, I was being pressurised to be a certain way and I did try hard. But I was getting slapped around left, right and centre. Then, in 2008, I reclaimed myself. I felt no one seems to be happy with me, so let me at least do what makes me happy. It wasn’t a moment’s decision; it took me weeks and months after talking to myself and my family. After that happened, people began to reclaim me too. I was just being myself and they liked what I was in the first place.
17 dead in Maharashtra hailstorms 800Cr Worth Crops Damaged In Entire State Nikhil Deshmukh, Ranjana Diggikar, Tushar Pawar TNN Kolhapur/Aurangabad/ Nashik: Seventeen persons have died and standing crops worth over Rs 800 crores destroyed following unseasonal rain and severe hailstorms in Maharashtra over the past two weeks. The loss has been acute in the state’s Marathwada region, where crops worth close to Rs 600 crore have been damaged, officials have said.     Two persons were killed and one injured when the wall of a house collapsed on a bakery in a hailstorm in Paithan taluka, 50km from here, early Tuesday morning, taking the toll to 17.     The spell of unseasonal rain and hailstorm that continues even after two weeks has caused the maximum damage to ready-to-harvest grape, wheat and pomegranate crops in the rain-hit areas of the state.     In Sangli district, the worst-affected in Western Maharashtra, grape plantations spread over an estimated 5,600 acres have been ruined in the rains. Similarly in Nashik, grape crops on around 500 hectares have been damaged. Wheat crops in both Nashik and Marathwada regions have been damaged in the rain. Onion crops too have been damaged in Nashik, which might trigger a hike in prices again.     Other horticulture crops damaged in the rain in these parts include pomegranate, watermelon and banana. Agricultural crops including wheat, jowar and gram too have been damaged.     Officials peg the total rain-lashed farmland in Kolhapur district at 8,000 hectares, where there is no possibility of any yield now. Sangli district collector Deependrasinh Kushwah said farmers make an estimated Rs 10 lakh from each hectare of grape cultivation, which puts the total loss at around Rs 800 crore.     In Marathwada region, farmers who were preparing to harvest their wheat crops are now counting losses. Jowar and gram crops too have been washed away in the rain in this region. The Aurangabad agriculture department has estimated crop losses to the tune of Rs 600 crore in Marathwada. Joint director of the agriculture department (Aurangabad division) Janardhan Jadhav said crops and fruits on 5.91 lakh hectares of land have been affected between February 22 and March 8. With an estimated average loss of Rs 10,000 per hectare, the total damage is estimated at about Rs 591.25 crore.     People in the region panicked as winds at 100-150 km blew away asbestos sheets covering homes. The sudden heavy rainfall and hailstorm left many exposed. More than the loss of crops, loss of lives has hit people hard, Jadhav said.     Officials in Nashik said the crops that have been affected were being cultivated for the Rabi (summer) season and were in the flowering stage. The harvest season was expected to start by month-end. Officials said the state government grants Rs 20,000 per hectare for areas that have suffered more than 50% damage of crops.     Officials said the devastation caused due to unseasonal rainfall and hailstorm was worse than drought. The process of conducting panchanama has already been initiated. They said that if enough labour had been made available, about 25% loss could have been saved as many of the crops had reached harvesting stage.
Mulayam Singh and Narendra Modi look to contest two Lok Sabha seats Provides welcome flexibility     With both Samajwadi Party chief Mulayam Singh Yadav and BJP’s prime ministerial candidate Narendra Modi looking to contest two seats in the coming Lok Sabha elections, questions have been raised regarding this strategy. However, criticism that simultaneously contesting from two constituencies is unethical and makes a mockery of the democratic process is unfair. In fact, before the Representation of People Act, 1951, candidates were free to contest from as many constituencies as they wished. Today, they can only do so from two seats and have to give up one should they win both. This ultimately ensures that each constituency is represented by one legislator alone, leaving little room to evade accountability.     The main reason for allowing such a system is flexibility. India is a big and diverse country. The outcome of an election is decided by several local, regional and national factors. Add to this complicated vote-bank calculations. In such a scenario, for political parties to put up winnable candidates in each constituency is a difficult task. In fact, even good candidates often lose out to intricate electoral arithmetic. Hence, having the flexibility to contest from two seats gives desirable nominees – those who may become able Cabinet ministers – an additional chance to become legislators.     Besides, this also helps counter political feudal lords and their vice-like grip on pocket boroughs. Challengers to long-standing MPs and MLAs feel emboldened if they have another constituency to fall back on. Such flexibility serves to project national leaders too. This is precisely why Modi – hitherto seen as a Gujarat strongman – has been nominated from Varanasi Lok Sabha constituency. Sans the two-seat rule, Modi would have been less inclined to contest from UP to shore up his PM-hopeful credentials. Thus, instead of breeding parochial legislators, flexibility incentivises politicians to step outside their comfort zone, strengthening democracy. One candidate, one seat Renuka Bisht     An actor books dates for one film by sacrificing another. A sportsperson cannot imagine playing different tournaments at the same time. An ordinary citizen accepts she cannot tackle two job interviews simultaneously and forgoes one for the other. But politicians are a class apart. They can contest polls from two seats. They can bag a winner’s crown even if they lose an election. It’s a special kind of insurance plan. And whether they win one seat or two, who’s stuck with the bill for byelections? Taxpayers.     When the price of everything from onions to airline tickets is going up and up, citizens have to accept that elections cannot be any different. But some expenses are quite unjustifiable and very avoidable. Expenditure resulting from politicians simultaneously standing for two seats definitely falls within this category. All political parties abuse this dispensation. It’s about spreading their bets. Big bragging rights are also at stake. In 1999, Sonia Gandhi accented winning the Congress presidency by winning both from Bellary in south India and Amethi in the north. This time around, Narendra Modi looks set to run for the Lok Sabha from both UP and Gujarat, while holding on to his Gujarat legislative assembly seat. Eat cake, have it, want more!     Before Independence, there was no cap on the number of constituencies that candidates could contest. The two-seat cap was an important electoral reform in 1951 and more than six decades later it’s high time to update that reform. Election Commission is also of the view that the law should be amended to restrain candidates from contesting two seats simultaneously. Yes, this would increase the risk factor for politicians but that’s only fair. Why should taxpayers help hedge political bets? Let’s match one person, one vote with one candidate, one seat.
Whoever wins, FM’s post likely to see a fresh face Economy Tops Public Mind Space This Poll Surojit Gupta TNN New Delhi: Price rise, particularly of food items like onion and pulses, has been an election issue in the past. But never has the economy cast such a looming shadow over any election. Jobs have become a huge concern. A large number of voters may not understand the theory of economic growth, but they sense that the slowdown has severely shrunk employment opportunities. That, coupled with inflation, appears to be dominating public mind space in this Lok Sabha election.     The irony is that regardless of which party comes to office, the next finance minister is likely to be a new face (not that that is necessarily a negative).     Since 1991, when the economic reforms process began, the finance ministers have been Manmohan Singh, P Chidambaram, Pranab Mukherjee, Yashwant Sinha and Jaswant Singh. For one reason or the other, they are all now out of the poll race.     While it is not necessary to win a Lok Sabha election or even be an MP to become a minister, chances are that the new government which assumes office after the general elections may hand over the job to a politician who has never handled such a crucial portfolio before.     So who could be the next Union finance minister? In the event of an NDA government coming back to power at the Centre, there is talk that the crucial portfolio may be handed over to Arun Jaitley, who is contesting on a BJP ticket from Amritsar. Jaitley has been a successful minister in the NDA government under Vajpayee, having handled crucial economic portfolios such as commerce and disinvestment. IN HOT SEAT SINCE REFORMS MANMOHAN SINGH JUNE 21, 1991 - MAY 16, 1996 JASWANT SINGH MAY 16, 1996 - JUNE 1996 P CHIDAMBARAM JUNE 1, 1996 - APR 21, 1997 INDER KUMAR GUJRAL APR 21, 1997 - MAY 1, 1997 P CHIDAMBARAM MAY 1, 1997 - MARCH 19, 1998 YASHWANT SINHA MARCH 19, 1998 - JULY 1, 2002 JASWANT SINGH JULY 1, 2002 - MAY 22, 2004 P CHIDAMBARAM MAY 22, 2004 - NOV 30, 2008 MANMOHAN SINGH NOV 30, 2008 - JAN 24, 2009 PRANAB MUKHERJEE JAN 24, 2009 - JUNE 26, 2012 MANMOHAN SINGH JUNE 26 - JULY 31, 2012 New FM must know how to boost growth New Delhi: No matter who comes to power after the Lok Sabha elections, the finance minister is likely to be a fresh face. One name doing the rounds is BJP’s Arun Jaitley — if the NDA returns to power. Another is Arun Shourie. Shourie, a former newspaper editor, author and World Bank economist, headed the disinvestment and commerce ministries in the Vajpayee government and is considered close to Narendra Modi. Experts say he could be roped in to nurse the economy back to health.     Since 1991, when Manmohan Singh as finance minister unveiled sweeping economic reforms, the corner office in North Block has been occupied by someone who had enough experience of economic matters.     But experts say that the new finance minister may have to burn the midnight oil to reverse the fortunes of Asia’s thirdlargest economy in the face of strong global and domestic headwinds. Growth is estimated to have slowed to a decadelow of 4.9%, the industrial sector is in the throes of a severe slowdown and inflation is proving stubborn. Business confidence has taken a knock and investments have dried up.     Apart from Chidambaram, UPA had a string of personalities who had built their reputation on the economic stage. From PM Singh to Pranab Mukherjee, Montek Singh Ahluwalia and C Rangarajan, chairman of the prime minister’s economic advisory council, the list was impressive. But analysts feel this “dream team” failed to weave its magic over the economy.     Whichever formation comes to power after the April-May elections will need to find somebody capable enough to handle the top job at North Block and jumpstart growth and confidence.
Enjoy a live barbeque brunch this weekend     Two One Two Bar And Grill introduces Mumbai’s first Live Barbeque Brunch on March 30. Known for their selection of world class meats, and expertise in preparation, the brunch will be priced at Rs 2,500 (all inclusive), offering a variety of live cooking stations. The assortment of meats for the live grill will range from tenderloin steaks, to lamb steaks, pork chops, chicken fillets, lobsters, prawn, fish and more.     Non meat lovers are offered a healthy selection of fresh vegetables, corn on the cob, cottage cheese burgers and more. A live, roast lamb carving station with the traditional accompaniments of roast potatoes and grilled vegetables will be a star feature, along with a fresh seafood station serving delicacies such as mussels, clam, squid and smoked salmon.     Amongst other delicacies are a Middle Eastern station with falafel and mezze platters. Patrons can also choose from a variety of burgers, pastas, pizzas and salads, and indulge in the pleasure of having the choicest, freshest ingredients prepared for them, to perfection. One can also enjoy cocktails especially designed for summer. With live entertainment and a relaxed ambience, one can look forward to a unique meal. Where: Two One Two Bar & Grill, 12-A Hornby Vellard Estate, Lotus Cinema Building, Next to Vitesse, Opposite Nehru Centre, Worli. Call: 24901994/5/6.
Hailstorm hits onion produce, prices up 40% Tushar Pawar TNN Nashik: The average wholesale onion prices at India’s largest wholesale onion market, the Lasalgaon Agriculture Produce Market Committee, have increased by 39.44% in just a week due to poor supply of the crop caused by unseasonal rains and hailstorms in Nashik district.     In the district APMCs, the average wholesale onion prices, which were in the range of Rs 575 to Rs 801 a quintal on April 10, rose to Rs 750-Rs 1,011 on Thursday within a week. In the retail market, good quality onions were sold in the range of Rs 12 to Rs 15 a kg.     Speaking to TOI, an official from Lasalgaon APMC said, “The quality of onions has been damaged due to recent hailstorms and unseasonal rains and only 40% of total arrival of the produce in the last month was of good quality. But the quantum of good quality onions has increased to 55% to 60% from this week and good quality onions are getting good prices. This is the major reason behind the rise in the average wholesale onion prices.”     Speaking to TOI, director of the National Agriculture Co-operative Marketing Federation of India Changdeo Holkar said, “Farmers have started storing onions with the hope of getting better prices. The arrival is expected to continue till June 15, after which it will decline.”
Tuck into a new three course lunch menu     Two One Two- Bar and Grill, a fine dine Modern European restaurant in Worli, is, for the first time, offering patrons a set lunch menu option. The menu includes a selection of soups and salads with a choice of burger, pizza or sandwich for 750 (AI), for both vegetarian and non-vegetarians. Options include a classic French onion soup, cappuccino of baby spinach, tenderloin burger, filleto-fish, Portobello mushroom and potato burger, falafel sandwiches, hotdogs, a variety of crisp wood-fired pizzas and more.     Each ingredient is carefully selected to maintain international standards. The selection, and price point, makes for an ideal lunch option for corporates within the vicinity or friends who would like to catch up over a quality meal, at affordable prices. The new lunch menu is offered between 12 - 3 pm, Monday to Saturday. Where: Two One Two Bar & Grill, 12-A Hornby Vellard Estate, Lotus Cinema Building, Opposite Nehru Centre, Worli. Call: 022 24901994/5/6. Timings: 12 pm to 3 pm.
EXCEPTION HERE
Weak monsoon may hit recovery India Inc Fears ‘Below Normal’ Rains Will Affect Demand, Sentiment Pankaj Doval & Sidhartha TNN New Delhi: With the economic growth hovering around 5% and the job scenario remaining weak, a “below normal” monsoon will be the first challenge awaiting the new government that will take charge just before the rainy season sets in. The already-stretched finances of the Centre will only add to the pressure.     While economists warned that below normal rains do not necessarily mean a drought or significantly hit the growth rate, Corporate India is already talking about the monsoon further denting the already-battered sentiment and impacting sales at a time when it was sensing a reversal in fortunes.     Private agencies had warned of the monsoon being below normal and, on Tuesday, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) forecast that rains will be below the average level. Coupled with that is the fear of the El Nino weather phenomenon impacting precipitation further.     Videocon Group chairman V N Dhoot said that a bad monsoon may impact demand, especially in rural areas that depend on the farm sector. “It’s not good news at all. Even though the dependence on monsoon has gone down, it will affect sentiments and it will come at a time when we are a little optimistic about a turnaround,” added Anil Dua, senior vice-president (marketing & sales), Hero MotoCorp, the country’s largest two-wheeler maker. Rural areas account for 48% of the company’s sales.     Pravin Shah, CEO of Mahindra & Mahindra’s automotive business, said, “It doesn’t have an immediate impact but it does impact sentiments.” Hero’s rival and former partner Honda isn’t reworking its targets just yet, although Y S Guleria, the head of sales and marketing at HMSI, says that monsoon and economic growth are inseparable.     Economists are also not changing their forecasts just yet. “The government should be on alert, we should prepare ourselves to deal with the prospects of below normal rains but there is not need to panic,” said Ashok Gulati, chair professor for agriculture at the Indian Council for Research on International Economic Relations (ICRIER).     There may, however, be some impact on inflation. While north-west India, which has better irrigation facilities, may not be affected significantly, Gulati said there may be some impact on the western region which grows oilseeds, cotton, sugarcane and onions.     With record food stocks, the government seems to be wellpositioned to deal with demand for grain. But a prolonged dry spell does impact milk production and may even hit prices of vegetables such as onions, which has been a political hot potato in recent years.     “It is early to assess the impact on growth, but it is a warning signal and there is a need to keep a watch on food inflation. It will be an important issue for the new government and it will have to take steps from day one,” said A Prasanna, chief economist at ICICI Securities Primary Dealership.     But the impact on overall growth is not expected to be significant. “If the total rainfall is 95% of the average with even spread of space and time, then the impact will not be very significant on agriculture production,” said D K Pant, chief economist and head (public finance) at India Ratings, while sticking to his forecast of 3% farm sector growth this year.     Dhoot cautioned that the government may have to increase spending in the rural areas to counter any negative fallout if the rainfall is highly deficient. Typically, in a raindeficient year, the government gets banks to restructure farm loans and spends more on job-generating schemes in areas where there is severe shortfall.
Sample scrumptious seafood specialities     The newest entrant in the seafood arena, Hai Bao from the China Gate Group of Restaurants, boasts of an extravagant menu, which includes the Shabu Shabu — a Barbeque Pan Grill and an elaborate à la carte list. Be it a traditional dinner or brunch, the restaurant has ensured enough variety and flavour to present a wonderful meal and a memorable time for guests. Some of its exotic preparations include the Crispy Pomfret Crushed Peppers, the Roast Duck Ginger Spring Onion, the Lemon Mustard Wasabi Prawns and the New Zealand Lamb Chop. Don’t miss the 26 variants of special homemade dipping sauces, which go well with nearly all items on the menu; especially the Barbeque Pan Grill. The latest addition to the menu is the Hai Bao Executive Power Lunch. Priced at 650 + taxes per person, it allows unlimited servings from a selection of soups, vegetarian and non vegetarian dim sums, appetisers, wok-fry, rice, noodles and desserts.     Where: Hai Bao, Juhu Tara     Road, Opposite Juhu Beach.     Average meal for two:     2,000 (+ taxes).     Call: 02226101800,     02226121800, 9167666723.     www.facebook.com/     HaiBaoOfficial www.twitter.com/HaiBaoOfficial 
El Nino doesn’t always cause drought No Need To Panic, Weak Monsoon May Have A Moderate Impact: Study Sidhartha TNN New Delhi:Amid concerns of deficient rains this monsoon, a new study has shown that since 1980, all El Nino years have not resulted in a drought, although all droughts have happened in years of El Nino. In the last 34 years, there were six droughts in El Nino years, while there were six other years that did not convert into droughts, Icrier’s Ashok Gulati and Shweta Saini said in a yet-to-be released study. The analysis will offer comfort to those wary of the adverse effects of weak rains on an already struggling economy.     Although the economists said that farm GDP falls 0.35% with every 1% deficiency from the average rainfall, they added that there is no reason to panic as their model does not point to a very high probability of a drought this year. Several other economists have said that a weak monsoon will only have a moderate impact.     The Icrier study pointed out that in 2000, 2005 and 2009, agriculture GDP rose despite rains being significantly below average. But the study did suggest that the government would do well by preparing in advance. On the positive side, Gulati, who recently stepped down as the chairman of the Commission for Agricultural Costs and Prices, and Saini said that there was sufficient water level in reservoirs and ample foodgrain stock in godowns. The stock of wheat and rice for instance is estimated at over 53 million tones, which is two-and-a-half times the buffer requirement.     Similarly, 85 major reservoirs have more than double the storage level compared to last year or average for last 10 years. Himachal Pradesh, Punjab, Rajasthan, Odisha, West Bengal, Gujarat, Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Karnataka, Kerala, and Tamil Nadu have better storage today than last year, it said.     In terms of preparation, economists suggested that the government should either expand the farm insurance cover or put in place a contingency reserve of Rs 5,000 crore.     “Although at the All-India level a declaration of drought requires more than 10% deficiency compared to LPA (long period average), agricultural production can get impacted significantly even if the overall deficiency is, say, 5-9% over LPA, depending upon the spatial spread of rains,” the report said. WHAT IF RAINS ARE INSUFFICIENT SAVING GRACE Grain stock (Wheat & Rice) | Estimated at 53.5 million tonnes, about 2.5 times the buffer norms Water level | 85 major reservoirs have more storage than last year or 10 years’ average PRESSURE POINTS Cotton | Prices may rise, exports may be affected Edible oil | Prices may go up as Indonesia and Malaysia, major source of imports, may be hit by El Nino ‘Pulses may go onion way’ New Delhi: If El Nino weighs on the monsoon and rains are deficient, the production of pulses is likely to get severely hit and affect the households’ budget the way onion brought tears to the common man, says an Assocham study.     The major pulse-producing states — Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh, which together account for about 80% of the total production — may witness less rainfall, affecting its output and prices. Despite the rise in production in the last three years, domestic demand is likely to continue to be more than the supplies in coming years, it added. AGENCIES
The Monophonic Voice of India Far from the buzz of new media in UP & Bihar, Modi’s message of development seems to have put stars in the eyes of voters Ruchir Sharma     Down the roads and crowded highways of Bihar and Uttar Pradesh, five days and 1,500 kilometres through searing heat we rolled, a motley crew of us following the Indian election, and we found a political star in plain sight. There were two dozen of us and together we spoke with hundreds of voters, only one of whom still supported the ruling Congress Party. One! Perhaps even more surprising, many of these voters had supported Congress in the past, and every one of them had switched loyalty to Narendra Modi. Not to his Bharatiya Janata Party. To Modi.     In a parliamentary system that puts party before personality, Modi has become the first candidate whose personal brand trumped party affiliation at a national level at least since Congress’s Iron Lady, Indira Gandhi, in the early 1970s. In a nation where strong regional identities had often blocked the rise of statelevel leaders to the national stage, Modi has used his post as chief minister in the state of Gujarat to launch his bid for the prime minister’s job. Shattering the provincial and party traditions of Indian politics, Modi thoroughly eclipsed his Congress rival, Indira’s grandson Rahul, a name barely mentioned on our route.     Only a year ago Modi was frontrunner by default in an election defined by disenchantment with Congress, with economic growth slowing and inflation raging after 10 desultory years in power. Modi was still not widely popular or even that well known in many states outside Gujarat, where his record raised equal measures of praise for his economic success and criticism of his alleged complicity in anti-Muslim riots a decade ago. Yet by the final weeks of the campaign, the disillusionment with Congress had given way to a sweeping embrace of Modi. Even in towns of remote Bihar where the lights barely flicker, villagers spoke with awe of how Modi turned the power on 24 hours a day in industrial Gujarat. Most had never been outside their Bihar village, so how could they know?     Ever since the BJP lost the last national election in 2009, Modi has been working toward this breakthrough. No Indian campaign has ever been so carefully calculated, so far in advance. Modi assembled the financing, the team of high-powered PR advisors, the media muscle to make a national name for himself. “This election was just like in America,” a middle-aged farmer named Sriram Tiwari told us in a roadside interview outside the Uttar Pradesh city of Allahabad. “The leader doesn’t have to come to you, you can watch the leader on TV. It is so much easier, you can really hear what they all have to say. And no one is as articulate as Modi, especially in his responses to questions from journalists.”     Modi is a rivetingly blunt speaker, but he is also the Indian political master of new media technologies. At traditional Indian political rallies like those we witnessed in Uttar Pradesh and Bihar, half the crowd shows up only long enough to watch the candidate’s helicopter stir dust storms in the landing field, and those who stay (including those paid to stay) can barely hear the crackling microphone over the din. The new media are much clearer. Since the election of 2009, the share of Indians with TV has risen from 53% to 63%, the number online has risen from 69 to 213 million, the number with smart phones from 3 to 70 million. Membership on Facebook is up from 10 to 100 million, on YouTube from 5 to 60 million, and Modi is all over these platforms and more. After we left Uttar Pradesh, Modi returned in the form of the life-size hologram he has used to project himself before some 1,500 rallies and 15 million voters during the campaign.     The power of these communication tools is magnified, for better or worse, by scale in India. We snaked along roads that follow the Ganges, stopping in various small hamlets around the city of Allahabad, asking locals who they plan to vote for. Almost invariably, faces grim with poverty would light up with a smile, and it had nothing to do with their chosen candidate. It was the sweet light of power, the spectacle the world marvelled over when they spoke of 814 million Indian voters. The ballot is the great leveller, and the poor guard this privilege jealously, divulge their voting intentions only under coaxing—“we’re not from the government, we’re just a bunch of journalists”—and it is only then that they speak of Modi.     Lord, satisfy the hope Modi has unleashed. His political machine has been hammering home the message of how he brought new business, new roads, new jobs and less crime to Gujarat, and now everyone outside Gujarat seems to know all this is true. They see Modi as an efficient strongman who will restore growth, lower the price of onions and, as one voter put it “make the trains run on time.”     Tiwari ticks off the usual gripes against Congress, including corruption, inflation, and crime. The folks he knows around Allahabad are switching to Modi because “the public needs change, and Modi is their guy.” Not far off, in the village of Saidabad, there is no electricity at one in the afternoon when the sun is high and the temperature hits 43 degrees Celsius, and people speak of how Modi will turn the fans back on. Modi hardly discourages this optimism, stealing Congress’s socialist thunder by promising every Indian a cool brick house with a toilet.     Some of the roads along the Ganges are so crowded or just so broken that on our road trip we often average less than 30 kilometres an hour, but so many people living along it are now hopeful that Modi will fill life’s potholes. In the town of Pali, Rakesh Kumar Verma is fed up after winning two masters degrees but ending up underemployed at the age of 42 because “the goons are in control.” Loan officers skim 15% of a one lakh loan for themselves. The bribes required to get even menial jobs make the jobs not worth taking. Verma gets by selling cheap jewellery. But Modi cleaned up corruption in Gujarat, he can handle the goons. My colleagues start joking, every time a window jams or a toilet won’t flush, “Modi will fix it.”     To many voters, though, Modi is more than a repair man. He was once a tea seller in a railway station, but now he is the self-made leader of the world’s largest democracy, a harbinger of disruptive change. In the district of Bhigunia, we crawl along a pontoon bridge over the Ganges to a tiny settlement accessible in no other way. On the far side we meet a young Brahmin, universityeducated and upper caste but not working, because it would be too embarrassing to take a job below his station in a place so small, where his family is well known. Under Modi though, the hope is it will be different. Pathetic job creation under Congress will give way to job growth. The Brahmin can go find work in a city, where he is anonymous. Caste barriers are eroded by urbanization and industrialization.     Travelling these bumpy roads, it becomes clear that the Modi wave did not spread only on modern channels. One high member of the Gandhi clan once allowed that the very poor communicate at a level that “we”, the literate and privileged, don’t understand. Perhaps it was this subaltern frequency that transmitted the Modi sunbeam from the smartphone elite and the TV-watching middle class to the rest of the 814 million. The candidate was relentless, too, showing up on so many stages voters wondered if there was more than one of him, not even counting the holograms. In Bihar we hear him speak in the town of Hajipur and he is as always spellbinding, intimate, hilarious. He says headlines scream in Gujarat if the power goes off for a few minutes, but celebrate in Bihar if the power goes on for a few hours.     Modi emerges as something of an oldfashioned strongman, delivering a multimedia message of modern development. What goes unsaid is equally revealing. Modi and the BJP have been largely silent on flammable foreign policy and sectarian issues, the words “Pakistan” and “Muslims” have fallen from the party lexicon. Asked about how Modi will deal with Muslims, many of whom fear the BJP, the farmer Tiwari cites an interview in which Modi dismissed such questions as “the language of those who want to divide India.” Besides, Tiwari suggests, sectarian strife is common in his part of the world and that in Gujarat there had been no further violence once the scores were settled in 2002.     Modi now seems set to govern all of India, the 150 million Muslims included and there is reason to be cautious. Though the popular vote for the BJP is expected to come in at the highest for any single party in three decades, it is still just around a third of the total vote. Two thirds of India and 90% of Muslims probably did not vote for Modi or BJP.     M o d i h a s promised the moon. In the final weeks he often targeted his promise that “better days are ahead” to the vast population of Indians under the age of 28, including the roughly 100 million who were voting for the first time in this election. The difficulty is that to create enough jobs for all these youths, India needs to create 10 million jobs a year for the next five years, or four times more than it has been creating over the past five years. It will be virtually impossible for Modi to hit the ground running on this challenge, because his first task should be to contain India’s double digit inflation, which means restrained government spending, high interest rates, and job growth remaining weak until inflation is whipped.     What then? It’s easy to imagine jobless, disappointed youths getting angry, and the hardcore Hindu fundamentalists reviving their old accusations that it is Muslims, with their high birth rate, who are to blame for India’s “population bomb” and the unemployment problem it is now creating. In a tense environment, it’s hard to know whether Modi would fuel the tension through innuendo, allow it to fester by remaining silent, or defuse it by trying to quiet the mob. On the road the Modi wave keeps bringing to mind the tale of Turkish leader Recep Tayyip Erdogan, another former street vendor (lemonade, not tea) who emerged from a pious political sect (Islamic, not Hindu) to become a selfmade prime minister much to chagrin of the secular elite. In his early years, Erdogan shelved his social and cultural agenda to focus on stabilizing the inflation ridden economy, and became widely popular. After taking office with 34% vote in 2002 elections, Erdogan was reelected with 50% in 2011. At the height of the boom, Erdogan’s name rang throughout the land, his voice dominated all discussion—echoes of Modi in India today. But then success went to Erdogan’s head, he stretched two terms into three, his autocratic instincts began bubbling to the surface as he pushed an increasingly Islamist social agenda. To stifle the resulting protests, Erdogan rolled out riot police, blamed foreign conspiracies, rallied his pious supporters to counter demonstrations, and recently attempted to ban Twitter, which his opponents are using to organize the anti-Erdogan campaign. One wonders if one day India’s new political messiah may also go the Erdogan way. For now, as in Turkey during Erdogan’s early years, India is focused on Modi’s promise that “better days are ahead.” The writer is head of emerging markets at Morgan Stanley Investment Management and author of ‘Breakout Nations: In Pursuit of the Next Economic Miracles’
EXCEPTION HERE
