Page1article1TIMES FOOD GUIDE From Russia, with love! Sabina Sehgal Saikia     Boy, it’s a right royal Boyarin! You can kiss dao svindanya to exotic nouvelle cuisine; Boyarin is purely for those who are thick and thiredh of calorie-conscious food. Sounds like Greek to you? Actually, it’s Ruski... welcome or dobro pojalovat to the brand-new Russian restaurant in town — at The Ashok — which has come up exactly where Rouge once stood. It’s a curious sort of place, this — very foreign and unlike any other restaurant you’ve been to in Delhi. The night the husband and I visited, there was an almost all-Russian crowd — burly east Europeans actually — having a jolly good time, swinging along with the all-woman band of three petite Russian crooners. It’s always a good, heartwarming sight to see huge men hugely happy, wouldn’t you agree?     Which brings us to the food — heavy duty! Let’s put it this way: the meal, as it unfolded through the evening, turned out to be zintac-defining for the delicate constitution of the husband. Having said that, it was really good, wholesome food. Other than the cliches that set Russian and East European cuisine apart potatoes, meat, garlic, butter, sour cream, beetroot, lard — there were moments that evening which elevated the experience. The Blini with Caviar (Rs 2000), for instance. Come on, let’s face it; at that price, you either sink to the depths of despair or soar to stratospheric sublimity. I am happy to report that it was the latter in our case. Okay, the caviar was Sevruga, and not the prized Beluga, but it was good stuff. And the Blinis? Excellent! The uttapamsized Russian pancakes were to die for — soft, gentle, and oozing with butter, served with a fairly generous helping of caviar and just a sliver of lemon, exactly as it should be!     Actually, for those who have visited Bline — the charming, little Russian restaurant in Anand Niketan — Boyarin is the exact other end of the spectrum. It’s fancy looking with crystal, old-world photographs of sundry Czars, brocade curtains, samovars et al, it’s as fine-dining as Russian cuisine can be and it’s fairly expensive. Sasha’s Bline, on the other hand, is home-style and affordable. In fact, I would recommend that, except for the occasional a la carte indulgence at Boyarin, it would be safest to stick to the Menu of the Day (Rs 850) which gives you a choice of an array of endless Russian salads, a choice of main course and dessert. This option is confined to an occasional offering, alas. But clearly, the food at Boyarin (Russian for nobility) is noble stuff — it’s authentic and pretty upper-end. I thought I’d floor the staff by asking for Sala (yes, the waiters also thought I was being extremely rude and offensive) but I insisted they pass on my request to the Chef. Pronto! The most luscious slices of cured Pork Lard with raw garlic arrived on the table. The husband nervously dug in and was convinced that the band breaking into “Killing Me Softly” was a divine sign!     Unfortunately, the celebrated Borsch at Boyarin is meatless, both literally and figuratively. The Chicken Stroganoff, on the other hand, is very good — a huge helping served with rice. What I would also recommend is the Vareniki — wonderful Russian momos tossed in oil with fried onions. But do be warned, the servings are so large, it constitutes a meal for two in itself. All the Russian signature dishes are there — Golubsti, Draniki, Pelimeni... all accompanied by a choice of premium Russian vodkas. The Napolean cakes are a treat too, but I’d settle for the Blinis with Honey, anyday!     All in all, I would certainly recommend Boyarin to you; it’s a bit like Maggie sauce — it’s different. And look at it this way — after a meal there, you needn’t bother about eating for another week! Pashiba! BOYARIN The Ashok 50-B Chanakyapuri Phone: 26111118 RATING: Food: 3.75 Ambience: 3.50 Service: 3.25 (5) Excellent (4) Very good (3) Good (2) Average (1) Poor 
Page1article2TIMES FOOD GUIDE Sabina Sehgal Saikia It’s Yesterday Once More...     The nomenclature may have changed — deforested from Jade Garden to a simple Jade; the restaurant itself may have undergone a makeover; but the food at Jade remains somewhat eternal. Not that it’s particularly scintillating stuff — we certainly have far more sophisticated Oriental cuisine available today in this foodie city of ours — but it’s great comfort food, if you know what I mean. It’s the kind of Chinese most of us grew up eating on special occasions, through the ‘70s and ‘80s, and loved every moment of it.     So, if only for a trip down the narrow street called nostalgia, the husband and I decided to try it out the other evening, to check if the magic still endured. I was happy to find that the food at Jade hasn’t jaded over the years. Of course, the prices have kept pace with galloping inflation and I’m not sure if the Rs 3,500 we paid for the meal the other night constitutes value-for-money — reminiscences notwithstanding, it’s a pretty steep price to pay for them!     The Claridges, of course, has never looked more enchanting and, quite like The Imperial, offers a slice of old-world Delhi. The revamp retains the charm effectively, without intimidating. I’m not so sure about Jade itself, though. I mean, it’s beautiful with its wooden floors, Chinese bric-abrac, beautifully painted wooden lunch boxes, artde-triumph... it’s just the wooden partitions that tend to box the 45-cover restaurant in. I loved the openness of the Jade in its Garden avavtar.     But, I am happy to report that the food remains pretty much the same with its signature style of dousing dishes with a generous helping of corn flour! In other words, don’t get fooled by that impressive wine list which has world wines of notable eminence but alas, with vintages missing! The Mouton Cadet Rouge Baron Philippe de Rothschild for Rs 1500 is noteworthy, but will the year please stand up? In any case, behind this genteel facade, you will be happy to know that the heart remains rooted in time — IST, that is. Forget claims of Sichuan and Guangzhou cuisine here, the Crispy Salt & Pepper Prawn (Rs 415) and Crispy Shredded Spinach (Rs 245) is stuff that satisfies the North     Indian palate like nothing else does!     Of course, chicken dishes (which constitute the major part of the menu) had to be given a miss in the larger interest of the zintac-ked husband who, for the last few days, is convinced that the flu is incubating inside him! As a consequence, we settled for the Steamed Shrimp Dumplings (Rs 195), patently a very poor substitute for the more celebrated Steamed Chicken Siew Mai (Rs 195). The soups too are thick and thired — Crabmeat Sweet Corn (Rs 185) and Coriander vegetable Broth (Rs 135). The main course, however, was far more promising — the Ginger Stir Pork with Spring Onions (Rs 395) is first-rate stuff, if you ignore the corn flour. Likewise, the Braised Beancurd with Double Mushrooms (Rs 295) and the Stir Fried Chinese Greens (Rs 295) are both pretty good, as long as you aren’t looking for a Taipan at The Claridges. The Steamed Red Snapper with Ginger and Spring Onions (Rs 445) isn’t a patch on the real McCoy at 19 Oriental Avenue at the Shangri La but, hey, it’s half the price!     All in all, do visit Jade, if only to revive memories of the days when this variety of Chinese cuisine was so au courant and de rigueur. Today, your palate may have evolved but don’t you still love that occasional taste of childhood, like the Aloo Parathas that only your mother makes? Well, Jade brings back those flavours from deep within the recesses of your forgotten childhood, in a flash! And frankly, how can that ever get jaded? JADE The Claridges 12, Aurangzeb Road Phone: 23010211 RATING: Food: 3.25 Ambience: 3.25 Service: 3.25 (5) Excellent (4) Very good (3) Good (2) Average (1) Poor 
