J U G U L A R V E I N Goa, Goa gone — II Jug Suraiya Goa was full of non-Goan propertyhunters rushing about buying up the place like tomorrow was an expired lease. But if Goa was full of these people, they in turn were full of Goa. Property hunting is a tiring and hungrymaking business. After you’ve dashed from Uccassaim to Arpora where you’ve heard a plot of land is going cheap, only to discover when you get there that the elusive bit of real estate is actually down south near Colva, you require sustenance more substantial than the repeated exhortation ‘What a fine sin-sinary’ (Gujarati and north Indian tourist-speak for ‘What lovely scenery. Are we having fun yet?’). What you are in dire need of is lunch. Fortunately, Goa does a mean lunch. Not to mention dinner, breakfast, elevenses, twelveses and inbetweenses. Indian food — the culinary avatar of the subcontinent’s social history presented on a platter — is without doubt the best food in the world. And Goan food — an engaging melange of Konkan spice and Portuguese guile, with just a smoky hint of Africa — can lay claim to being among the best regional candidates on the Indian menu.     Alphonse de Albuquerque sailed up the Mandovi in 1510 and Goa became a colony of Portugal, which it remained till 1961. With the first monsoon, when the rain came thudding down in sheets, Alphonse must have found time hanging heavy on his hands. He’d built a couple of protective forts at the mouth of the Mandovi, established the settlement upriver. What was an empire-builder to do next, dude? There were no ODIs to watch, no SMS to text buddies back in Lisboa, no Sunday papers to read. So Alphonse did the only thing he could. He invented the vindaloo. Or it might have been xacuti. Or maybe cafrial. Of course Alphonse didn’t actually invent any of these delectable things himself. He must have had masalchis and sundry lackeys to chop the onions and the beef and the chicken, and ladle in the vinegar that gives Goan cuisine its inimitable tangy flavour, and simmer it all over an unhurried fire till the aromatic steam rose like a fragrant miasma, mingling with the smell of rain and river and wet earth, a geography of the palate, the creation of a country in a cooking pot. Goa’s secret weapon which it uses so disarmingly against the new land-grabbing conquistadores who are threatening to overrun it is food. For the visitor, Goa can often be one long, extended meal, with intermittent intervals of siesta to allow digestion to do its work. The day begins with the early morning tinkle of the breadman’s bicycle bell. Warm from the oven, the bread has a taxonomy all its own: There is the cottonwool-soft pao, the wholemeal pui, the crusty brun. Impossible to tell which one you like most; best eat all three.     At breakfast the main topic of discussion is lunch. Lunch consists of amotik (a sort of fish vindaloo, preferably made with shark) and teesriyo, clams doused in garlic butter. Dessert is bebinca, a cholesterol battering ram made with egg yolks, sugar, flour and gobs of butter. The bebinca has yet to be cleared when plans are underway for dinner. Should we have shrimp curry with rice or with sanas, made from a fermented idli-like batter? The debate inconclusive, we decide to have both. And to stave off hunger pangs till dinner, there’re always bolinghnas, plump cookies with just a touch of grated coconut.     After six days of this, I felt that Goa was growing on me, its growth concentrated around my waistline. And I realised why property is booming in Goa. It’s a case of inelastic supply and elastic demand. There’s only a fixed, or inelastic, supply of land in Goa. But the girth of the land buyers — and the space they increasingly occupy — is noticeably elastic, thanks to the local fare. I helped myself to a final bolinghnas. And sod the property prices.
Another suicide as onion prices crash Mumbai: Unable to face the crisis created due to falling onion prices, another Nashik farmer — the fifth in the past two months — committed suicide on Monday night.     In his suicide note, the farmer, Pandurang Kadam (65), clearly blamed the Congress-led governments at the Centre and Maharashtra for the plight of onion-growers.     According to reports reaching here, Kadam said he sold 17 quintal of onion for Rs 2,950 of which Rs 1,000 went towards cost of transportation etc. TNN
Kathmandu shuts down; economy may follow suit By Keshav Pradhan/TNN movement of supply trucks and oil tankers from India. An Indian diplomat said, ‘‘All trucks and tankers are stranded on our side of the border.'' These vehicles are stuck mostly at Jogbani and Raxaul (Bihar) and Nautanwa and Rupadiha (UP) and Panitanki (Darjeeling). Similarly, there has been no Kathmandu: The embattled Himalayan kingdom's capital city shut down on Saturday as an indefinite strike called by prodemocracy parties kicked in. But there was no let up in demonstrations and violence, with police attacking protesting journalists in Kathmandu with truncheons, leaving at least 14 of them wounded, some with serious head injuries.     More than 130 people, including journalists, were arrested from among about 75,000 people who swarmed Kathmandu streets, pushing through police barricades and breaking and regrouping as rubber bullets and tear gas shells rained on them. By the end of the day, about 50 people were reported injured.     Meanwhile, autocratic monarch Gyanendra's refusal to heed calls to restore parliament and kickstart democracy, pushed the already impoverished nation to the brink of economic collapse with supplies from India choked off by transport disruptions and prices of commodities skyrocketing.     A Raj Parishad (royal privy council) member on Saturday said Nepal was facing a serious economic and fiscal crisis. ‘‘The kingdom is standing close to a precipice. Its entire economic system has come to a halt,'' he said, speaking on condition of anonymity.     The parishad has forwarded some recommendations to the palace after discussing the alarming situation, but the Cabinet has not so far openly talked about price rises.     For the past one week, there has been no movement of supplies within the kingdom. People feared an acute shortage of fuel within the next few days. ‘‘The only saving grace is we do not immediately need much petrol and diesel because of bandhs and curfews,'' said one resident.     At Lazimpat, about 100 metres from the heavily-fortified palace, a medicine dealer said, ‘‘We have not got supplies of medicines and baby food from India for almost 10 days. We do not know what will happen after we pull down our shutters from Sunday in support of democracy.'' Rallying behind democrats, doctors and pharmacists have also decided to close down OPDs in all hospitals and medicine vends.     Prices of commodities started shooting up two to three times after the Army started blocking highways to stop pro-democracy supporters from attending a sevenparty alliance s p o n s o re d anti-king rally on April 6. Price rise in a week •Meat Rs 300 to Rs 450 (per kilogram) •Onions Rs 15 to Rs 80 •Green chillies Rs 25 to Rs 120 •Potatoes Rs 20 to 35
Prices of vegetables escalate TIMES NEWS NETWORK Lucknow: Vegetables have become dearer in the state capital with their prices literally touching the skies. Most of the vegetables are being sold at two-three times higher than the price a couple of weeks ago. While the matter is a cause of concern for the common man, sun shines bright on vegetable vendors.     Garlic witnessed the maximum hike. Around a fortnight back, it was available at around Rs 34 per kilogram as against the exiting Rs 90 per kg. Same was the case with onions and tomatoes. As against the present rate of Rs 40 per kg, tomatoes were being sold between Rs 16-22 per kg two weeks ago.     Yet another vegetable whose price has escalated is green coriander. Commonly used in summers to make chutneys, it has jumped from Rs 40 to Rs 100 in two weeks. The prices of seasonal vegetables like brinjal, spinach, cabbage and arbi too have doubled. Even mint and green chilies were being sold at double the price on Monday.     When asked, vegetable vendors stated that it was because of the dynamic weather that the prices of vegetables have jumped. "Most of the vegetables available in the state capital are transported from other states -- mainly Uttranchal and Maharashtra. Since monsoons have hit these states, the sun is playing hide and seek as a result of which vegetables spoil soon during transportation," said Afsar Hussain, a vegetable vendor in Narhi.     Another vendor, Vijay Bahadur Pal said that most of the vegetables are brought from Haldwani and Nasik.     Predicting that the price may shoot up further following the hike in the price of diesel and petrol he said, "Until now it has not been implemented. But soon, transporters will start charging more from us. Since we will be burdened, we are bound to pass on the hike to our customers," he added.
TOO TAXING Where will the spiralling prices stop? That’s the question uppermost in the common man’s mind By Pankaj Shah/TNN Veggies make you see red Lucknow: They were already touching the roof two days ago. Now the prices of vegetables have broken even that barrier.     Tomatoes, which stood at Rs 32 per kg two days back, spiralled to Rs 40 per kg at Narhi market in Lucknow on Friday. According to vendors, the prices of tomatoes were around Rs 24 per kg five days back. Onions which stood at Rs 5 per kgs five days back were now hovering at Rs 7 per kgs. Potatoes too recorded a minor hike selling at Rs 8 per kgs as against Rs 7 per kgs two days ago. Peas, too stood at Rs 40 per kg. This, claimed vendors hasn’t changed. Garlic too witnessed a substantial hike. Around a fortnight back, it was available at around Rs 34 per kg. But now it has soared to Rs 90 per kg. Coriander too shot up from Rs 40 to Rs 100 per kg in just two weeks.     The prices of seasonal vegetables like brinjal, spinach, and cabbage too have doubled. Even mint and green chillies were being sold at double the price. Though most of the vendors feign ignorance as to what is the reason for such a rise, some attribute it to deterring climatic conditions in the areas where most of the vegetables are produced. “Most of the vegetables available in the state capital are transported from other states — mainly Uttaranchal and Maharashtra. Erratic rainfall followed by simmering sun have spoiled the vegetables in a short span,” said Afsar Hussain, a vegetable vendor in Narhi.     Significantly, there are variations in the prices of vegetables as well. This is far more evident in case of tomatoes. While some vendors were seen selling tomatoes at Rs 32 per kg, some were selling it at Rs 40 per kg claiming them to be of better quality. Not surprisingly, sale of expensive items, especially tomatoes, recorded a minor dip. Ramesh, a vendor claimed that he had bought nearly a quintal of tomatoes at Rs 26 per kg two days ago. He was now selling them at Rs 32 per kg even though his colleague sell them at Rs 40 per kg. “This is in order to dispose of before they get spoiled, resulting in loss,” he said.     Pulses? Oh, Dear     Indeed, price of an average thali too have registered a hike owing to pulses’ rates shooting up. The phenomenon has been witnessed in the last three months, merchants admit. While Arhar, the most commonly used dal has shot to Rs 36 per kg as against Rs 32 three months ago, Urad rocketed to Rs 62 per kg as against Rs 52 per kg. Similar is the case with Hari urad which according to retailers stands at Rs 52 per kg as against Rs 44 per kg three months ago. Moong registered an increase of Rs 6 per kg, from Rs 50 per kg to Rs 56 per kg. Ask the reason, and the retailers have an apt reply. “Production has decreased and hence the mismatch in demand and supply,” says Gagan Arora, a retailer. Arora agreed that though the prices had increased, people continued to consume the same amount of food grains. “How can people decrease consumption of essential food grains,” asked Prakash Khare, a consumer. “We are being forced to buy at these supposedly jacked up prices,” he said insisting on the possibilities of hoarding and black marketing by retailers. The retailers on the other hand rubbishes these allegations saying that they are forced to buy the commodities at the rates available in the wholesale market. “We barely earn a profit of Rs 4 or 5 per kg of dals,” said Gagan. TNN
BRIEF CASE Tomato Tantrums By MANJU VAISH     HOUSEWIVES are seeing red as tomato goes out of bounds. This humble vegetable has sent shivers down the collective spine of the powers that be, compelling them to offer it to the public at an affordable Rs 20 a kg at select outlets. This is not the first time that the price of tomatoes, or onions, or whatever, has hit the roof. It’s an annual phenomenon which comes with the monsoon. Oldies like me were like the proverbial ant which slogged right through the summer to provide for a lean winter. It is just that the seasons were reversed. In December and January when tomatoes were dirt cheap, we would get busy making puree, ketchup, to keep our families well provided for in the veggielean summer months. How gratifying it was to turn out rich tomato-based gravies, when the vegetable had all but disappeared from the grocer’s shelves. Indeed a few decades ago, when refrigeration facilities were unheard of and transportation primitive and inefficient, one had to be proactive when there was a glut in the market, or just make do without tomatoes. Indeed, the housewives who had not preserved the stuff in winter were like the silly grasshopper that sang and danced in the sunshine the entire summer, to starve to death in winter.     Winter in Delhi, with its plethora of sunshine, was a major preserving season. Lemons and oranges were cheap, plentiful and of excellent quality. Dozens of bottles of lemonade, orange squash, ginger-ale, would be diligently churned out, to slake the thirst of family and friends in the gruelling summer ahead. Marmalade, guava jelly, lemon pickle were mandatory follow ons. If one was tardy, the family would have much to go without in summer, for on a single salary, buying bottled drinks or pickles was downright prohibitive. Summer too was not bereft of major culinary marathons. Now it was the king of fruit, the mango, that reigned supreme. Mango pickles of myriad styles, chutneys and squashes were de rigueur for any housewife worth her salt. But all this is a tale of another era, and yours truly a species as extinct as the dodo. Would I get into those culinary shenanigans once again? In keeping with the times, all messy, tedious tasks are, you guessed it, outsourced.
Shaping up commodity trading Govt To Curb Speculation In Futures To Keep Prices Under Check By Nidhi Sharma & Sidhartha/TNN New Delhi: Having dealt with supply problems which were pushing up prices of key household items, government is now moving to tighten the noose on speculative transactions in the commodity futures markets.     The consumer affairs department has shot-off a letter to state governments seeking their suggestions to improve the functioning of the markets, besides asking for a list of commodities that they would want to be removed from futures trading.     Confirming this, Delhi food and civil supplies minister Raj Kumar Chauhan said: ‘‘The Centre has asked for suggestions over the issue. They want our opinion on forward trading. They are in the process of forming a commission to look into the matter and want to know what the state governments feel. We will be sending our reply to the ministry soon.’’     The consumer affairs department has also asked the Forward Markets Commission (FMC), the regulator for commodities trading, to overhaul the norms for products like guar gum — which is used only in chewing gums and ice creams, but attracts high trading interest — and some pulses, where, again, volumes are low but are prone to large price swing.     The concerns over the nature of transactions in the commodities futures markets and the limited impact that they have had on farmer interests, which was at the heart of the much-publicised launch of the two exchanges, are also casting a shadow on the entry of institutional players like FIIs into the trading arena.     The developments come close on the heels of a highlevel meeting of chief ministers of all Congress-ruled states called by party president Sonia Gandhi on price rise issue. The CMs had minced no words in blaming futures trading for spiralling prices all over the country.     Mindful of the concerns, the Cabinet Committee on Prices had last month asked cabinet secretary B K Chaturvedi to discuss ways to strengthen the commodity futures markets, pending legal amendments. Chaturvedi has held initial parleys with the finance ministry brass and North Block has also moved in to keep tabs on price of wheat in the futures markets since the commodity is seen to be under maximum pressure given the shortage in the domestic and global markets.     ‘‘We have noticed more speculation in the case of the smaller commodities. Though trading will stabilise as the markets grow, we want to ensure that there are no problems even in the short term since farmer interests are involved,’’ an official said.     Potato and onion were also added to the list and forward trading started on Friday. Chauhan said: ‘‘We will watch prices of these vegetables carefully. So far, there has been no change. If forward trading has an inflationary effect on prices, then we will include this observation in our reply to the ministry.’’
DISHING OUT AN ORGANIC PLATTER It’s no longer a celeb fad. As Indian middle class now wakes up to the taste of organic food, entrepreneurs rush to cash in on the trend, naturally! ANJALI SINGH JAISWAL SAVOUR this: Atima Kala, a Jammu-based homemaker, believes that dishing out healthy meals doesn’t mean excluding oil from cooking. “It is a misconception that oil-less or low fat food is healthy. In fact, for a healthy wholesome diet a tablespoon of oil is a must. The challenge, when cooking, is to retain the taste and nutritional value of the food. Fresh and organically grown onions, ginger, garlic and coriander can double up as flavouring agents. If used generously, instead of dry masalas, they add to the nutritional value of the food,” she observes.     A health food freak, Kum Kum Dhar, noted Kathak danseuse, has also innovated on ways of cooking healthy. “Adding mattha (buttermilk) to gravy increases its nutritional value. Add to this saunf (fennel seeds) which doubles up as a thickening agent with digestive properties and a healthy meal is ready.”     Healthy cooking fad has certainly caught on in Indian kitchens today, so much so that it has even prompted entrepreneurs to seriously consider making a business out of people’s taste for all things natural.     Feels Rohit Sharma, Deputy Manager, Corporate Communications of a company manufacturing herbal tea and health food, “Organic products are not new but the interest they are now generating is. Till recently organic spices, herbs etc were grown in India yet their demand was more overseas. But now Indian hotels and eateries are approaching us as they are keen to develop an organic menu to cash in on the trend.”     With efforts on to train farmers and tribals in production of organic crops and detoxifying the land, an organic revolution of sorts is being planned in the country, affirm NGOs involved in the movement. Explains Manoj Kumar Menon, Manager Market Development, International Competence Centre for Organic Agriculture (ICCOA), “Market surveys by us reveal that young couples with growing kids are emerging as the biggest consumers of organic products. This trend paved the way in 2000 for India Organic Trade Fairs which are now organised regularly nationwide. A single fair these days is generating close to Rs 42 crore in terms of business collaborations in Indian organic products. As many as 16 countries have shown interest in exports of organic products. Sponsorship offers from states like Maharastra, Karnataka and Himachal Pradesh are pouring in.” Pretty upbeat about the response that organic products are generating, ICCOA also has tied up with five star hotels, restaurants and small eateries to popularise organic food. Adds Menon, “We plan to organise organic food festivals with them. The popular dishes can then be added to the hotel’s menu.”     Confirms, Arunav Sinha, Restaurant Manager of a five star city hotel, “Though still in the planning stages, we will be introducing dishes made from organic products. An organic menu, based on the suggestions by our in house chef, who is an organic food expert, is being drawn up. Within a couple of months it will be available to our customers.”     anjali.singh@timesgroup.com Organic revolution To cater to the growing demand for organic products in the country ICCOA has set up organic retail stores at Chennai, Hyderabad, Bangalore, Pune and New Delhi. Called Fresh Earth and 24-Lettered Mantra, these stores serve as one stop shop for all organic purchases. They also supply organic dairy products. Priced 15% higher than regular products, the response that organic food is now getting has forced entrepreneurs to lower their prices. The organic products are quality certified by institutions like APEDA and international agencies like HACCP, GMP and USDA. A herbal tea company has plans to set up organic retail stores in a few states. Uttar Pradesh is one of them.
The complete cinema experience? Not here, yet! Despite the same brand names, why don’t Lucknow multiplexes match up to the ones in metros? LT explores the reasons SHAMBHU SAHU THEY came to the city promising not just good cinema but the entire experience of it. However, the customers are yet to get their money’s worth as far as multiplex cinema viewing is concerned. While one lacks good food, the other one has not been able to live up to its brand name. Why don’t these national brands deliver the same quality they do in metros? LT explores.     With the entry of PVR cinemas last year, Lucknowites were upbeat about the experience they’d get. However, a peculiar smell in its audis have kept city folk away. The management is not only aware but also been (rather unsuccessfully though) taking measures to fight the icky smell for quite sometime now. “It’s a technical problem,” explains Ashish Negi, manager of the multiplex. “We have tried ozoniser and have conducted carpet checks as well to rectify the problem. And it has diminished to quite an extent,” is his version. As for Wave Cinemas, patrons have been complaining about the food: "The capsicum and onions in the vegetable sandwich that I bought were stale and smelly. I had to argue a lot to have it replaced with another food item,” rued a customer Anita Nigam. “That’s not possible,” defends Dheeraj Sharma, general manger at the theatre. “We get fresh bakery supplies twice a day and order only the amount we think will be consumed in a day,” However, he maintains that the maintenance cost here is higher than in metros. But can that be a reason for poor services, we wonder.     Another multiplex advantage that the city has been devoid of is the English films. Sharma explains, “We did take the initiative to bring down Hollywood films two years back, but the response was poor. And when a Hindi film manages better revenue than its English counterpart, distributors are also not interested in blocking a print here. It’s sheer economics.” Agrees Negi, “We too tried it with films like Superman Returns and Basic Instinct II but it didn’t click. However, we are planning to show fresh or re-runs of English films in the morning slots.”     Meanwhile, PVR has sops like flexi-pricing for the festival season lined up to draw film-goers. They’ve reduced the ticket rates to almost half for morning shows. A failure of premium pricing in Lucknow? Avers Sharad Khandelwal of Alankar cinema: “Given Lucknow’s demography, there aren’t many who can afford premium cinema viewing.Going by Lucknow's demography, there aren't too many people who can afford premium cinema viewing, unlike Delhi and Mumbai, where a large part of the population ibelongs to the upwardly mobile middle class.” He adds that the upcoming multiplexes have a thing or two to learn in the trade, and the subsequent competition will only better the services offered to people. “The supplier has to adopt to the market not the buyers."     Prominent single screen cinemas in the city have, in the meantime, survived the multiplex threat and managed their share of business well. “We can’t reduce our prices as we have to pay entertainment tax while multiplexes don’t. We cater to a larger audience and believe in constant upgradation of facilities,” avers Rajesh Tandon, of Novelty talkies. You choose, patrons!     shambhu.sahu@timesgroup.com 
Prices of essentials skyrocket By Mamta Singh/TNN Lucknow: People are feeling the pinch as they are forced to shell out more and more for vegetables, eggs, milk, pulses and flour.     Price rise has already burnt a huge hole in household budgets and forced people to drastically scale down purchases of non-essential commodities. The poor has been worst hit and the middle-class too is feeling the pinch. Potato, the common man’s staple diet is priced at Rs 20, peas at Rs 40, french beans at Rs 32, parval at Rs 20, tomatoes at Rs 20, capsicum at Rs 32, lady finger at Rs 20 and onion at Rs 24 per kilogram.     “Our budget has gone awry,” laments Shashi, a housewife. “What do we eat to sustain our existence? Today not only vegetables, but even pulses and flour have become costlier. A balanced diet is essential for proper health. However, currently it is beyond common man’s means,” she says.     “Spiralling vegetable prices have sent the monthly budget topsy-turvy,” stresses Madhu, another housewife. “Only the rich do not feel the pinch,” she adds.     The common man has been hit hard by sky-rocketing prices of vegetables. “Garib ko thand to baad mein maregi, pehle bhook maar degi, (cold will kill the poor man later, hunger would kill him first),” says Rani, a house maid.     “We will slowly learn to make adjustments in our budget, as life is all about making adjustments,” says VB Dimri.     The vegetable vendors blame lack of supply for the rising prices. “We did not get the supply as transporters are busy with election duty.     The supply is generally from local districts. Restrictions imposed on borders have allowed only small tongas to pass through,” says Battu Sonkar a vegetable vendor of Raniganj mandi. “Today we cannot say what the prices would be in the future,” he says. RK Sonekar, a vegetable vendor in Narhi Mandi says “the produce in Punjab has gone bad.”     Some vegetable sellers say that the increase is routine at this time of the year and attribute the rising prices to seasonal change.     The prices have shown at least a fluctuation by 25% in almost all vegetables.     Among pulses, “urad has recorded massive price rise from Rs 60 to Rs 72 per kg, chana dal has gone up from Rs 34 to Rs 44, desi chana from Rs 30 to Rs 44. The flour price too have gone up from Rs 80 to Rs 95 per 5 kg. All this is due to the impact of online trading,” said Jagdeesh Kesarwani of Satguru Store, Hazartganj.     The impact of price is there “as earlier we used to consume over five kg of tomatoes every week, but for the last two weeks we are managing just oneand-a-half kilo,” Pooja, another housewife adds.     “Papa has stopped bringing potatoes because they are too costly,” complains school-going daughter of Pooja. Rise in prices of vegetables have forced housewives to drastically cut down on vegetables in the daily menu. TNN
Retailers go extra mile to woo customers Abir Pal | TNN Mumbai: Stacked on the rear shelves of the just opened Reliance Fresh outlet in Hyderabad is a clue; exactly the kind retailers scour markets sniffing around for. Heaped in two black plastic crates are puja flowers; chrysanthemums and the more expensive, but headier, jasmine.     Though slightly incongruous in this air-conditioned 2,300 sq ft Banjara Hill outlet, with its aisles of wrapped vegetables, well stocked visi-coolers and bar-coded produce , they are a clear sign of how modern retail is bending over backwards in the face of local tastes and preferences. On the shelves are four to five varieties of rice including a local favourite, sona masuri. A number that may go up to 40 or more, once Reliance rolls out nationally. “We have placed small sample bowls in front of each variety as Indians typically like to touch and feel the produce before purchase,” said Jai Bendre, head, food marketing.     The upcoming Reliance Fresh stores, part of Reliance ambitious Rs 25,000 crore retail initiative, will have separate non-vegetarian sections and offer home delivery much like the neighbourhood kirana. Onions, potatoes, tomatoes and other price sensitive categories are being offered in three quality grades, each a few rupees expensive than the other, to serve all wallet sizes. In house brands of staples rub shoulders with more expensive ones and cut vegetables and fruits are being sold alongside regular ones.     Hyderabad, where eleven pilot stores have opened is being used to tweak critical supply chain or backend, which enables global heavyweights like Wal-Mart to offer the cheapest rates and the widest choice of products. Reliance Fresh’s pilot farm-to-fork project currently uses 16 collection centres in and around Hyderabad to collect fresh produce.     Be it cabbage from Bangalore or tomatoes from Madanpalli, 32 vehicles and around 100 people are involved in ferrying it to processing centre, having cold storages and rooms, where it is cleaned, sorted and graded.     Reliance says pickups usually reach the processing centre anywhere between 12 to 18 hours from collection. “The earlier you pre-cool, the longer the shelf life. So as we grow and volumes pickup, the collection centres may be fitted out to act as mini-processing centres,” said Gunender Kapur, head of the foods business. This is in addition to the fruits and vegetables it buys from local vendors and directly sourced regional specialities like apples from Himachal Pradesh.” Right now the emphasis is to ensure that whatever is available reaches stores fastest. But going forward, we will work with farmers on what to grow and how to grow it best,” said Sanjay Asthana, head of agribusiness. Reliance Fresh offers a glimpse into how food retailing is likely to shape up in this country. Already retail brands like Food World, Food Bazaar, Subhiksha, are fighting it out in markets like Hyderabad each trying to outdo the other by offering the best prices, widest range and special promotions.While food, the largest part of any household budget, holds enormous potential, this is a business that requires deep pockets and long waiting periods. A lot of things need to be got right, especially location. “Typically most of the everyday buying is done in shops that are in and around where one stays. Ideally walking distance and hardly anything beyond one and a half to two kilometres,” says Atul Ahuja, principal consultant, Technopak. But the rewards for those who get it right can be gratifying as Reliance Fresh discovered; the puja flowers sold out in two hours of the store opening.
MEN AND IDEAS The price of potatoes GURCHARAN DAS I sometimes wonder why I pay Rs 10 per kilo for potatoes when the farmer receives only Rs 3. My potatoes travel some distance, I realise, from the farm to the mandi to my bania, and each person in the chain must get his cut. Still, the gap of Rs 7 seems excessive, especially when the American farmer receives Rs 4 to Rs 5. This gap varies, of course, depending on the commodity and the season, but studies by agricultural economists show that farmers in the developed countries do get a bigger share of the consumer price because their distribution chain is shorter.     Reliance opened seven supermarkets in Hyderabad last month and my friend bought potatoes there for Rs 10 per kilo compared to Rs 18 at his bania’s shop. Another friend who works with an NGO in rural Andhra reported that farmers, who had supplied potatoes to Reliance, reported receiving higher than the mandi price. How could Reliance pay a higher price to farmers and charge a lower price to consumers? Simple, it had eliminated middlemen in the chain. Thus, we should welcome the entry of large retailers. They will bring logistical efficiencies and competition between them will lower consumer prices and raise farmers’ incomes. We shouldn’t wait too long to open this sector to foreign retailers like Wal-mart and Tesco lest Reliance become a monopoly.     A typical farmer harvests his crop, loads it on his bullock cart, travels 30 km to the mandi, where he is often forced to sell at distress prices. Once at the mandi, he cannot return without disposing his produce. He needs the money and the trader knows it. Had he known the price before he left, he might have waited a few days. Where echaupals have arrived farmers are happy because they get to know mandi prices via the Internet. The national commodities exchange (NCDEX) is setting up electronic tickers announcing spot and future prices in local languages at mandis and bus stands in some states. Eventually, the mobile phone will be the farmer’s best source of information. All these developments make traders unhappy.     Since his crop is perishable, the farmer needs a warehouse to enhance his staying power. NCDEX is putting up a thousand cold storages with world class grading facilities, but large retailers will also bring air-conditioned warehouses and trucks, and this will save India’s huge post harvest losses, as high as 40% for some crops. Banks ought to lend money to farmers against warehouse receipts, but the RBI refuses to allow them to hedge against future prices. This is a pity for bank loans would mitigate the farmer’s risk and improve his holding power. In fact, banks should also sell crop insurance. It is amazing that RBI should view futures trading as speculation. If the farmer knows the price of potatoes, he might plant onions instead.     Old habits of the mind die slowly. When you have been a stagnant, peasant agriculture for hundreds of years, it is difficult to grasp how Reliance, commodity exchanges, futures trading, and contract farming will quietly bring a second Green Revolution and liberate farmers from the clutches of the old mandi system, which is at the heart of rural political patronage. Activists oppose the entry of global retailers like Wal-mart on ideological grounds. Talk of farmer suicides is cheap. Politician-traders on agricultural marketing committees play on these insecurities. No wonder, it takes so long to reform in a democracy.     gurcharandas@vsnl.com
Jaffna Under Siege Blocking off arterial road causes humanitarian crisis By AMMU JOSEPH Sri Lankan president Mahinda Rajapakse recently announced in Delhi that his government intended to buy food and other groceries in Tamil Nadu and transport it to Jaffna. He pointed out that this was the easiest and fastest way to get essential commodities to the peninsula. Better late than never.     If the plan is put into action in the near future it will bring much-needed relief to inhabitants of the northern tip of the island, who have been coping with an even more difficult situation than usual since August.     “Since August” is a recurring theme in conversations with residents of Jaffna, who experienced relative peace in the years since 2002, when the Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam (LTTE) and the government of Sri Lanka agreed to a ceasefire. On August 11, a major offensive by LTTE provoked retaliation by the Sri Lankan Army (SLA) and led to the closure of the A9 highway northwards from Muhamalai. The consequent siege of Jaffna has left civilians feeling like drums beaten at both ends, as one of them put it.     Approximately 37,000 people living near the SLA’s high security zones and artillery points have fled their homes, fearful of being caught in the crossfire of the daily — now sporadic — shelling between warring sides. They have joined the ranks of “internally displaced people” in Jaffna, the geographically isolated part of northern Sri Lanka which, unlike neighbouring areas, is under government control. About 8,000 of the latest additions to the sizeable population dislocated by the 20-year war are, at present, living in temporary camps. The rest have sought refuge with relatives and friends.     The blocking of A9, the only land route connecting the peninsula with the mainland and the lifeline for the northern district, has more or less trapped people within the embattled area. Travel and transport by sea and air have also been affected by the renewed conflict. According to residents, the period since August is the worst they have faced in two decades of war.     This is the first time they have had to deal with such scarcity of food, fuel and other essentials. It is not that there is no food at all. Limited rations are distributed through cooperative stores, but quantities are minimal and inadequate. With staples like rice, flour, sugar, milk powder and lentils supplied in one shop and other basic food items like onions, chillies and oil dispensed through another, people are forced to spend long hours in queues for meagre provisions. Various items become unavailable from time to time: Last week, both sugar and milk powder (including infant food) were in short supply.     Prices of the few commodities available in the open market, including vegetables, have tripled or even quadrupled since August, placing them out of the reach of most citizens.     Fresh outbreak of hostilities and related developments have resulted in widespread unemployment. The prohibition of fishing in the name of security has rendered a large number of people without any source of income. Shortage of building materials has meant no work for a wide range of workers, including masons and carpenters. With shops dealing in a variety of goods unable to replenish supplies, many have downed shutters, throwing another category of people out of work. Thanks to the fuel shortage, auto drivers and others in the transport sector have limited scope to earn a living. Local journalists quote labour department estimates suggesting that 2,000 persons employed by the small private sector operating in the peninsula have lost their jobs.     Schools, which were closed for two months, were recently reopened to enable children to prepare for their exams. But the situation in University of Jaffna is surreal. The institution has not been officially closed, but it is functioning without students and has, therefore, suspended all teaching activities. A third of the student body comes from outside the peninsula. After trouble began in August, the university had to house and feed the marooned youngsters for two months before they were sent home with the cooperation of the armed forces.     Despite the heavy presence of the army, and curfew from dusk to dawn, killings and disappearances continue. Apart from daylight murders, such as the shooting of a gram sevakar in his office by armed men on a motorcycle on Thursday, there are the infamous white vans with no number plates or other identifying marks, carrying masked, armed men who take individuals away from their homes at night. Many are later found dead, many others are not seen again. According to residents, the situation has worsened since August and there is little families can do to trace missing relatives, let alone secure justice for murdered ones. Even the local human rights commission appears unable to do much beyond documenting the shadowy crimes. Jaffna residents cope with the difficult situation with varying levels of resilience, fear, anxiety, resignation and resentment. They are obviously paying a heavy price for deviation from the thorny path towards peace and escalation of war-mongering and violence on both sides.     In his Heroes Day speech on November 27, LTTE chief Velupillai Prabhakaran said there was “no other option (other than) an independent state for the people of Tamil Eelam”. This has left people in Jaffna feeling more vulnerable than ever: What would the Rajapakse government’s response be?     The writer is a journalist who visited Sri Lanka recently.
Meanwhile, vegetable prices skyrocket TIMES NEWS NETWORK Lucknow: Mobility was not the only thing affected due to scarcity of petrol across the state. The impact of the strike was felt on the dining table as well. Vendors cashed upon the shortage of vegetable and fruit supply from rural to urban areas. Prices of most vegetables and fruits doubled during the strike period. Though the strike was withdrawn after assurances from the government, it will take a couple of days for things to return to normal.     The price of potatoes, a must for every kitchen, soared like anything during the strike. "We are selling potatoes around Rs 8-10 per kg. Last week, the prices were just half," stated Mohd Anas, a vegetable vendor in Nishatganj vegetable market. He attributed the hike to the rates offered at Sitapur Sabzi Mandi, the biggest vegetable market in the city.     "The strike has affected the movement of truckers as a result of which fresh vegetables were not imported to the market. The prices were bound to escalate," said Afsar bhai, a vegetable vendor at Sitapur Sabzi Mandi, speaking to The Times of India over phone.     Housewives started using onions --another mandatory item for the kitchen -- judiciously. "Onions are bringing more tears when we used them during the strike period. The vendors were charging Rs 12 for a Kg. Just a couple of days ago, the rate was Rs 7-8 per kg," stated Garima Kumar, a housewife in Kaiserbagh.     The prices of peas and cauliflowers --which are the staple diet in all houses during winter -- also rose. While cauliflowers were being sold at Rs 5 as against the pre-strike price of Rs 2, the rate of per kg peas rose from Rs 8 to Rs 16.     Common winter fruits like guavas, bananas and apples also became expensive during the strike. "An apple a day keeps the doctor away, they say. But these days, apples are so expensive that people would prefer keeping doctors close," said Usha Chaturvedi, as she refused to purchase apple worth Rs 55 per kg from fruit vendors in Narhi market.     Bananas which were once sold at Rs 12 per dozen, were being sold at Rs 22-24 a dozen. Guavas, which are referred to as the poor man's fruit, were being sold at Rs 28 per kg as against the pre-strike price of Rs 16 per kg.     Gajar ka halwa, which was a common sweet dish in winter has become a delicacy as carrots are expensive. "Buying carrots at the present rate would mean an investment of more than Rs 200, which otherwise was less than Rs 75." Carrots were being sold at Rs 15 per kg as against the pre-strike price of Rs 6-8.
Inflation zooms to 6.58% TIMES NEWS NETWORK New Delhi: There seems to be no respite from price rise despite steps taken by the government, raising worries for UPA on the eve of tough assembly elections in Uttarakhand and Punjab with a mega poll battle to follow in UP.     The rate of inflation, measured by wholesale price index, touched 6.58% during the weekended January 27 — the highest since December 11, 2004 — on account of higher food and manufactured goods prices. Inflation was estimated at 6.11% in previous week and 4.04% during the corresponding period last year.     With little signs of a dip in prices and the effect of last year’s low base effect showing for some more time, economists predict inflation will remain in the 6-6.5% range for a few more weeks. The government’s political worry lines will only deepen.     Data showed that primary products, particularly food items, were the prime drivers of inflation as prices of fruits, milk, vegetables, egg, mean and fish were rising fast. Onion retail is already at Rs 24 a kg. Manufactured goods, too, have played their part as firms have been passing on the increase in raw material costs to endconsumers, who still lap up white goods, mobiles and cars thanks to rising income levels.     With the middle class and the lower income segments affected the most due to the steep rise in the monthly food bill, you could expect some duty cuts in the coming days as the government tries to contain prices. On the flip side, interest rates too could rise as RBI tries to rein in inflation by slowing down economic growth rates.     While the impact of interest rate hikes typically take 12-18 months to show, economists believe, duty cuts appeared to be the more likely step to control prices in the short-term. Besides, bankers said, RBI had raised rates only recently. Last month, the government reduced import duties on cement, capital goods, steel, aluminium, copper and other industrial raw materials, as well as palm and sunflower oils. The government is already faced with a demand to lower duty on petro goods, including fuels.For the moment, however, price rise has given enough fodder to BJP, the main opposition party, with party spokesperson Prakash Javadekar saying, “Nobody trusts the finance minister now. Prices are surging and there is no check on inflation.”     But Congress, while expressing concern over inflation, said there was no magic wand to contain it. “There is no switch-on or switch-off button... Let us wait for the budget as war against inflation has been launched,” party spokesperson Abhishek Singhvi confessed.     “There is no single measure that can take care of the situation since there is pressure from all sides. There is demand pull, there are cost push factors like costlier raw materials and there are supply side constraints. Government and RBI have taken steps but the rise in primary product prices is worrisome. We have ignored agriculture for a long time,” said DK Joshi, principal economist, Crisil.
Chilly weather heats up commodity prices By Mamta Singh/TNN Lucknow: Blame dip in mercury, winds and the rain, if your grocery bill sky-rockets. Lucknowites are feeling the heat as they are forced to shell out more for every kilogram of each vegetable. Not only vegetables but pulses and cereals too will bear the brunt of the rains.     “As far as the prices of vegetables and fruits are concerned, there are always seasonal fluctuations,” said Chandrika Prasad, director general, UP Council of Agricultural Research.     Winds and rain has affected wheat, masoor dal, mustard and gram crops standing in the field to some extend. Water logging in the fields will no doubt affect the yields, said Rai Birendra Vikram Singh, agriculturist from Kuvanpur, near Lucknow. “Wheat crops have been flattened by the strong wind and rain but let’s see what we can recover,” he said.     Price rise is playing havoc with household budgets and forcing people to drastically scale down purchases of non-essential commodities. The poor has been worst hit while the middle class is also feeling the pinch. Potato, the commonman’s staple diet, is priced at Rs 5 to Rs 6 per kg and is likely to rise as rains have flooded the fields. Two weeks back it was available at Rs 3 to Rs 4 per kg. Green peas, though available at Rs 10 to Rs 12 per kg presently, are expected to rise, parval is at Rs 65 per kg, bittergourd at Rs 30 to Rs 35, onions at Rs 16 to Rs 20, garlic at Rs 100 per kg, Indian breed tomatoes at Rs 8 to 16 and Nasik breed at Rs 15 to Rs 20 per kg.     “The hoarding by private traders of garlic cannot be ruled out. The price is high of some vegetables as they are off-season and only those who can afford will eat it,” said Prasad.     The vegetable vendors blame the rising prices on the lack of supply. “We did not get the supply from transporters due to rains,” said Battu Sonkar, a vegetable vendor from Ranjganj mandi. “Today we cannot say what the prices would be in the future,” he said. RK Sonekar, another vegetable vendor in Narhi mandi, says “What can be said about future prices as rain will affect produce to some extent.”
Fuel prices cut to fight inflation Modest Reduction May Not Be Of Much Help TIMES NEWS NETWORK New Delhi: Faced with the rising discontent over price rise, the government was on Thursday forced to offer a placebo reducing petrol and diesel prices by Rs 2 and Re 1 respectively.     In Delhi, petrol will now cost Rs 42.85 a litre and diesel Rs 30.25 a litre. In neighbouring Haryana and nine other states, including Uttarakhand, Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu, the reduction will be more than what the oil ministry announced because these states had slashed local levies to take some sting out of the steep increase in oil prices announced in June.     Thursday’s decision was the second step by the government, now clearly in inflation-combat gear, this week to rein in the rising prices. Earlier this week, RBI had raised the requirement for banks to hold cash with the central bank in a desperate bid to reduce the amount of money in circulation.     But with inflation, measured by Wholesale Price Index, touching 6.72% during the week ended February 2, the government was forced to hit the panic button. Indeed, within hours of the release of the alarming data, the government announced that it was preparing to allow more imports to augment supplies and ease the price situation.     Commerce minister Kamal Nath said, ‘‘High inflation was due to supply constraints and the industry department is looking at the gaps. If need arises imports will be made more flexible.’’ Almost simultaneously, industry secretary Ajay Dua indicated that duties on cement, metals and paper might be reduced.     By the evening, the entire government was in a fire-fighting mode, with Prime Minister Manmohan Singh and finance minister P Chidambaram chipping in with placatory statements to soothe the nerves at Congress headquarters.     The cut in fuel prices will force the government to go for a duty rejig to partly offset the impact on state-owned oil marketing firms, while the remaining loss will be covered through oil bonds already approved. ‘‘As far as inflation is concerned, we have a multi-pronged strategy.. I think in the next couple of weeks, you will see positive results of the actions we have taken,’’ PM Manmohan Singh said about actions being taken to tackle rishing inflation.     The reduction in petrol and diesel prices fully brought out the anxiety of the government, marking a major climbdown from its stand that it would not cut the prices before international crude prices settled below $50 a barrel. On Thursday, international crude price hovered around $58 a barrel.     The price cut was also meant to be a substitute for the government’s failure to control the prices of primary food articles. Congress sources confirmed this.     The poll winds from Punjab and Uttarakhand suggest that price rise may have begun to extract a political cost, with the rivals already seeing the issue as a potent weapon to strike at Congress. The measure, government’s second move to reduce prices in three months, may bring down the cost of daily commuting, but that will not suffice. Economists estimated that its impact on inflation could be as little as 0.05%.     In any case, the fuel group was not the major contributor to inflation, if the government’s own data are to be believed. The rise to 6.73% was mainly on account of higher food prices as not just pulses, fruits and vegetables became more expensive but prices of pork, meat and eggs rose much faster. Manufactured goods too played their part.     The cost of daily living is rising due to gaps in supply of ‘primary’ articles — wheat, pulses, onions and vegetables — and not because of high fuel prices. Primary articles, consisting of two categories of food and non-food articles, have a weight of 22.02% in the WPI (wholesale prices index) on which inflation is based. Motor fuels are part of fuel, power, light and lubricants category, which has a weightage of 14.23%. Manufactured products have 63.75% weight in WPI.     Inflation has risen to 6.73% for the week ended February 3 from 6.58% in the previous week.
Onions Minus Tears Increasing supply best way to control inflation     THE price rise in food articles — onions, fruit, milk, vegetables and pulses — is really starting to hurt. Ruling at about 20 per cent over the same period last year, food prices are driving the present inflation of 6.7 per cent. Let us cut through the babble of economists, politicians and bankers and try to figure out why prices are rising and where economy managers are making mistakes. Is the current inflation essentially caused by too much money chasing too few goods, as the Reserve Bank (RBI) would have us believe? RBI raised short-term lending rates for banks six times since April 2005, but that has had little effect on the growth of credit. This is not surprising because in an open economy with growing financial flows banks can access credit at competitive rates from other sources. RBI has, therefore, resorted to a more drastic move: raising the reserves that banks need to keep with them by 0.5 per cent since January 1 this year to 6 per cent of its deposits. This would make money dear for manufacturing, which, in fact, is not principally behind the current price rise. It is very unlikely that high money supply and credit growth have contributed to a rise in prices of foodstuffs. Their prices have risen because production has not kept pace with demand. So what is RBI trying to achieve? By making money dear, it will exacerbate supply constraints in manufacturing and create inflationary conditions in this sector. RBI should be reconciled to high money supply growth in an open and rapidly growing economy. It should restrict itself to easing credit in order to promote productivity and innovation.     India’s focus ought to remain on high growth, even if that entails an interim inflation level of 5-5.5 per cent — interim, because that would come down when supply side constraints are eased. Attacking inflation too hard through interest rate hikes would hit growth and jobs. Does this prescription sound harsh for those doing their grocery shopping? Not really. Their immediate problems can be solved through imports, while the real challenge lies in doubling the trend growth rate of agriculture from 2 per cent to 4 per cent. The government has done too little, too late by reducing petrol and diesel prices by Rs 2 and Re 1 a litre, respectively. Petrol prices can be cut further if the government slashes the tax component. What else can it do to ease structural constraints to growth? The government should make India an easier place to do business by attacking the red tape and cutting expenditure that does not create assets. With such steps, we can have jobs and growth with low prices, our onions without tears.
Nothing To Smile About Inflation has government on the back foot By PARANJOY GUHA THAKURTA The spectre of inflation has come to haunt those who had been crowing about how fast the Indian economy is growing. There have been knee-jerk reactions from the UPA government that claims its economic policies are for the aam aadmi. What is currently taking place is the worst possible form of inflation, driven by sharp increases in prices of food products. This, in turn, is eroding the real incomes of the poor the most.     All the economic gains that the government had been tom-tomming about stand negated by this single setback. Inflation is certain to erode the popularity of the ruling coalition all over the country, particularly in states where elections are expected. The Congress party is on the defensive — internal criticism of the stewardship of the economy by prime minister Manmohan Singh and finance minister P Chidambaram has mounted with the government being attacked by both the BJP and the Left.     The move to cut retail prices of petrol and diesel, the Reserve Bank’s decision to increase the cash reserve ratio of banks, the stopping of forward trading in certain pulses and steps to ban exports of particular food products and reduce import duties on others have all come rather late in the day. The impact of these decisions would be felt on the price level only after a few weeks, if not months. Meanwhile, the government would be vulnerable to more strident attacks from its critics for mismanaging supplies of essential articles.     As the rate of inflation measured by the wholesale price index edges towards the 7 per cent mark, no homemaker worth her salt believes that prices have gone up only by this proportion over a year. It is not just the reality of the marketplace but the fine print in government reports that tell a different story. RBI has pointed out that over the last year or so, the wholesale prices of pulses are up by more than 25 per cent, wheat prices have increased by 15 per cent, fruits by 12 per cent and milk by over 6 per cent. If anything, these are underestimates — consumer prices are much higher.     The WPI is compiled by the ministry of statistics and programme implementation. Figures put together by the ministry of labour paint a different picture. In December, when the WPI was up by 5.6 per cent, various consumer price indices (CPIs) were registering a far faster rate of inflation — the CPI for agricultural labourers had risen by nearly 9 per cent while the CPI for urban nonmanual employees had increased by nearly 7 per cent. Since the CPIs have been consistently higher than the WPI since November 2005, the short point is that even if one goes by government statistics (inaccurate as they can be) the current rate of inflation is at double-digit levels.     This is pretty bad news for those in power. Inflation is one economic phenomenon that politicians understand rather well — the prices of onions or sugar have been the subject matter of powerful slogans that have contributed to electoral losses. To repeat the evocative phrase recently used by the RBI’s deputy governor Rakesh Mohan, inflation is “a tax on the poor against which no hedges are available”. Who does not know that food comprises a much larger portion of the expenditure of the poor than the well-off ?     Inflation, in fact, indirectly transfers incomes from the poor to the rich (whose profits go up faster than the rate at which prices rise) and hence needs to be curbed as soon as possible, particularly in highly unequal and stratified societies such as ours.     A combination of two broad sets of factors, demand-pull and cost-push, contribute to inflation. Till the end of August, 2006, inflation was largely cost-push and driven by high oil prices. International prices of crude oil crashed from over $75 a barrel in early-August to just over $50 a barrel by December. But domestic retail prices did not go down commensurately. The government wanted to protect its tax revenues and the bottolines of oil companies. It is now paying a stiff price for this delay in rolling back prices of petrol and diesel. RBI could have upped the CRR earlier. It did not. Industrialist friends of the powers-that-be did not want interest rates to harden. In keeping corporate captains happy, the government ended up antagonising the person on the street (not Dalal Street).     There is little that Chidambaram can hope to do in the coming Budget that could tame the inflation monster. A reduction in peak customs tariffs is on the anvil. Clearly, differentministries (including agriculture, commerce and finance) need to work in closer coordination with one another to better manage food supplies.     In the first press conference Manmohan Singh had addressed as finance minister in June 1991, he had scoffed at Rajiv Gandhi’s pre-election promise to roll back prices of various products if his party returned to power. The Congress party was wild with what the economist and technocrat had innocently remarked, because he knew better than others how difficult it is to bring prices down. He had to eat his words. The prime minister has hopefully become more politically savvy since then. His government has no choice but to pull out all stops to douse the inflationary fires.     The writer is director, School of Convergence.
Budget session: Oppn has enough ‘masala’ to corner government New Delhi: The Congress moves for dismissal of the Mulayam Singh Yadav government and rising prices in the budget session of Parliament beginning on Friday may provide enough grist for Opposition against the government.     With friends and foes giving hints of cornering the government on the issue of prices, the three-month long session is expected to be a rough ride for the Congress-led coalition.     Against the backdrop of a political battle, the 38-member strong Yadavled Samajwadi Party has withdrawn support to the UPA coalition, becoming the first major outside ally to do so.     The SP is bound to raise the pitch by targeting the Congress on the issue of dismissal and would utilise Parliament to reach out to the people ahead of the assembly polls.     Finance minister P Chidambaram and agriculture minister Sharad Pawar are likely to come under the scanner of the opposition and certain allies in the session.     Being held in the background of high inflation since the coalition came to power in 2004, the session is expected to be the trickiest one for it as the Left parties, key outside supporter, would not leave the opportunity to take advantage of the situation.     With the price of onions bringing tears to the common man, it is to be seen how Chidambaram in his third budget tries to cheer the sentiment of the ‘aam aadmi’. Expectations are that the budget for 2007-08 would be a populist affair. PTI
URDU PRESS MSY’s dismissal may lead to Third Front By Abid Suhail     If one were to go by the views expressed by the Urdu Press on the question of bringing UP under Central rule, one may well take them all as ardent supporters of Mulayam and his Samajwadi Party. But that might be over-simplification. Many of them do not take his tall claims of all-round development of the state while others do not credit him with having done much for the minorities and some of them have been criticising him for poor law and order situation. But, somehow, the Centre’s dismissal move has not found much support even among the section of the media favourably inclined towards it. The Congress should better ponder over the situation.     The constitutional niceties apart, In Dinon (22/2) warns the Congress that the Left and the SP with around 100 MPs make a formidable block and may pave the way for a Third Front sidelining the Rightist parties, including the BJP, which is an ardent supporter of the US.     Any change in the political situation of UP (through Mulayam government’s dismissal), says the daily, may harm the interests of the industrialists, the multi-nationals earning crores of rupees from India and the US bid to build up India as a rival to C h i n a . The daily also holds the Congress move against the common minimum programme on whose basis the Central government was formed. Rashtriya Sahara (19/2), on the other hand, wonders that the Congress move may boomerang as it had done in Jharkhand and Bihar. That apart, the daily is much concerned about the advantage that the communal forces may gain because of the secularists’ bid to outwit each other.     Despite supporting the Congress’ UP move, Qaumi Khabren (23/2) concedes that the announcement of poll schedule has diminished the prospects of the Central rule.     Discussing the subject, Sahafat (21/2), predicts the fourth position for the Congress in the coming elections, and points out that the judiciary goes by the principle of ‘factum valid” also and the Central government might be humiliated by the apex court if it sacks the state government.     Train Blast: The Samjhauta Express explosion, killing about 70 people, most of them Pakistanis, has failed to achieve its object of sabotaging the Indo-Pak foreign ministerlevel talks as also the two-nation rail link. Sahafat (22/2) is happy that the run of the train from Pakistan, after the explosion, has not been disturbed. The daily sees the two events as the biggest slap on the perpetrators of the blast, whosoever they might be. The daily also approvingly notes the two sides’ restraint in blaming each other for the dastardly act and nods Musharraf’s hope that the Indian government will take steps to bring the guilty to book and see to it that they are most severely punished.     Aag (20/2), while condemning the bid to torpedo the twonation negotiations, wants the terrorists to be made to realise that whatever they might do, the two governments would not be cowed down to accept their demands.     Onion Tears: Without challenging Chidambaram’s assertion that he has no magic wand to bring down the prices of onion and foodstuff, Rashtriya Sahara (24/2) points out his success in keeping the prices of computers, cars, refrigerators, scooters and TV under check betrays more of his preferences than his incompetence.
Wake-up Call State polls give a jolt to Congress     THESE are difficult times for Congress. First, the party blundered on its plan for UP. Second, the shadow of Ottavio Quattrocchi, an accused in the Bofors scam, has returned to haunt the party. Third, the party has been voted out of office in two significant states. Manipur can only be a small consolation for the defeats in Punjab and Uttarakhand. BJP, despite being a house divided, has got a fresh lease of life and hope ahead of the crucial battle in UP. It is obvious that anti-incumbency has led to the party’s defeat in Punjab and Uttarakhand. One big factor that contributed to the groundswell against Congress has been the failure of state and central governments to contain inflation. The economic growth picture may look pretty. However, prices of essentials have shot up in recent months. After all, onions win elections in India. One of the reasons that helped Congress to turn the tide against NDA during the 2004 parliamentary elections was the slogan that it identified with the aam aadmi. It appears that the party has been unable to deliver on the perception. The failure to rein in inflation on prices of essential goods could only have turned the aam aadmi against the party.     Congress did not show the political imagination to understand the disquiet. In Punjab, it was unable to strike a deal with the Left or BSP and counter the consolidation of Akali Dal and BJP votes. Congress’s inability to present a united front in Uttarakhand gave the state in a platter to BJP. Quite apart from party-political calculations, however, today’s electorates demand inclusive development, and politicians are somewhat behind the curve in latching on to this. The losses in the two states are bound to have an impact on central policies. The Left, a crucial partner of the UPA, could up the ante on economic issues. Within Congress, there are sections sceptical of the present SEZ policy and the proposal to allow entry to foreign retail chains. A convergence of these two sections is possible and that could stymie policy-making. Half way into completing its term in office, the UPA government has to revisit the promise of reforms with a human face. Economic growth that only increases inequalities would backfire on any incumbent government. Manmohan Singh has to ensure that inclusive growth does not remain a slogan.
Dark Badal over Cong future Anand Soondas | TNN Chandigarh: Behind a rack of empty chairs, a few women, their faces turned away from the Prime Minister who was addressing a rally in Ludhiana, were caught on camera guffawing. It’s not certain what they were laughing at — it could have been promises of ‘cheap atta’ and ‘dal’ when prices of onions were forcing them to use more tomatoes, something unthinkable on a Punjabi plate — but the signs were ominous.     Capt Amarinder Singh should have taken the photograph more seriously.     On Tuesday, just like the women who turned their backs on Manmohan Singh, Punjab voters gave Congress the cold shoulder. A resurgent Akali-BJP combine wrested 67 seats in a House of 117. Shiromani Akali Dal (Badal) leader Sukhbir Singh Badal said in New Delhi that his father Parkash Singh Badal would be the next chief minister.     At Lambi from where he won, Badal senior said, ‘‘People have entrusted a big responsibility on us and I seek the cooperation of everybody including the opposition.’’ He wouldn’t pursue politics of vendetta, Badal added.     Amarinder submitted his resignation to Governor S F Rodrigues. He, however, wouldn’t accept that anti-incumbency led to the drubbing. ‘‘Congress has done well overall. But in the urban areas price rise was perhaps a factor. The rural electorate was with us,’’ he said.     Even exit polls went awry. Congress, with 43 seats, did better than the doomsday predictions but was felled b y three fundamental ‘I’s: incumbency, inflation and infighting.     In a super-charged campaign that saw both vitriol and violence, the machinations of Sukhbir Badal, a University of California management graduate, hit the right chords. He promised development, transparent boards, subsidised food and a re-look at the SEZs. He more or less blamed the Congress government for the spiralling inflation. That stuck and hurt too.     Congress leaders failed to project a cohesive fighting unit. Differences between the CM and his PPCC chief Shamsher Singh Dullo had turned into some kind of a joke. And, there were an amazing 29 Congress rebels in the fray.     BJP’s performance surprised everyone. It jacked up its tally from three in 2002 to 19, a sign that Hindu voters were back in the party’s kitty. There’s talk now that a strengthened BJP will not settle for anything less than deputy CM’s post.
SWAMINOMICS Budget ’07: FM’s tightrope walk SWAMINATHAN S ANKLESARIA AIYAR Unlucky finance minister Chidambaram: he had to present his budget one day after his Congress Party was thrashed in state elections in Punjab and Uttarakhand. Partymen in both states blamed the defeat on inflation, and hence (indirectly) on Chidambaram.     The party had been paranoid for a month about rising prices, especially of wheat, dal and onions. Chidambaram was told to curb other prices by banning futures treading and cutting taxes. He would have liked to wait till budget day to cut taxes, and then be rewarded with applause. But Sonia Gandhi wanted action before the elections. So Chidambaram cut the price of and taxes on petrol, diesel, metals and chemicals. Alas, inflation stayed high and his party lost the state elections.     This really put the political heat on him. He had to forget any dream budget and focus instead on a twopoint programme: inflation hatao, Congress bachao. Losing small states like Punjab and Uttarakhand was tolerable, but the party could not afford a bad loss in Uttar Pradesh, which goes to the polls in April-May.     Did the budget deliver on inflation hatao? Not really. Economists will tell you that inflation is mainly a monetary phenomenon, not fixable instantly by budgetary measures. Still, Chidambaram cut peak import duties from 12.5% to 10%. He also cut excise duties haphazardly, forgetting earlier resolutions to move towards a single rate for all goods and services in preparation for a national Goods and Services Tax in 2010. He did not dare raise service taxes in an anti-inflation budget.     Yet, his anti-inflationary efforts have yielded poor dividends. Given high world prices, many items (polyester, plastics) look too expensive to import even after lower duties. Indian manufacturers of steel, cars and cement have actually raised their prices.     Chidambaram’s big bungle was a dual-duty system for cement. He raised the excise duty on cement for bags costing over Rs 190 and cut the duty on bags costing less. Did he really think this would induce companies to cut prices? Dual pricing typically leads to invoice manipulation and blackmarketing. Some companies will invoice cement at a low rate for the tax break, and then sell it at a higher rate, pocketing the black premium in cash. Other manufacturers will mix more fly ash in cement, yielding a lower price but lower quality too. The top companies — ACC, Gujarat Ambuja and others — have opted to pay the higher duty and pass it on to consumers: their prices are up Rs 12 a bag. Not what Congressmen expected from an anti-inflation budget.     Chidambaram’s big faux pas was to cut duty on pet foods. This unleashed a thousand witticisms. Prices are rising for humans, but falling for animals. This is a billi-kutta budget. We wanted a budget for the aam aadmi but got one for the aam kutta.     The best witticism of all: Pet food is what is served at meetings of the Congress Working Committee by Sonia Gandhi.     What about the Congress bachao objective for the UP election? Chidambaram spent fully 20 minutes of his budget speech on measures and outlays for rural India and education. He increased the outlay on Bharat Nirman, the rural infrastructure programme by 31.6%, on education by 35% and on health by 22%. He provided for one lakh scholarships for secondary education, the hiring of two lakh more teachers and the building of five lakh more classrooms. He invoked the aam aadmi endlessly.     Yet, Congress backbenchers did not cheer with any enthusiasm. Why? Because people are bored and cynical after 50 years of promises of higher outlays, programmes and targets for rural India. Indian literacy at 65% and infant mortality at 60 per thousand are worse than in some poor African countries. Teaching quality is so abysmal that half the poor families in Delhi would rather pay high fees to send their kids to private schools. Government teacher absenteeism ranges from 18% to 58%. One survey shows that of Class VII students who don’t get private tuition, only one in seven can write his or her name. No state government dares discipline teachers, backed by powerful trade unions. Millions of children pass out of school functionally illiterate.     Similar problems afflict the employment guarantee scheme, the jewel in the crown of Congress programmes. The allocation is up from Rs 11,300 crore to just Rs 12,000 crore. Why so little? Because state governments have failed to lift even the Rs 11,300 provided this year. The biggest culprits are the poorest states where the aam admi is most in need.     All social services and rural programmes are delivered by state governments. The plain fact is that New Delhi does not rule rural India, state capitals do. Not even 5% of villagers have ever seen a central government official: the only government they know is the state government. So, while Chidambaram would love to do more for the aam admi, he can only act through state governments, many of which are hostile to the Congress, and many of which have third-rate administrations. So, Congress bachao is going to be a difficult task.
BRIGHT FOR CONSUMER Stores start a price war in vegetables Sujit John | TNN Bangalore: It’s the Reliance mobile phone story all over again, but on another front. About 60,000 people walked into the 11 Reliance Fresh stores across Bangalore over the last weekend — Saturday and Sunday. There were crowds right from 8.30 in the morning and right through to nearly 9pm to pick up vegetables and fruits.     Even the local push-cart vendors are now said to be making their purchases at these and the competing outlets of Fabmall and Heritage Foods' Fresh@ because of the extremely attractive prices — potato at Rs 7.90 or Rs 8 a kg, when the market price is Rs 10-12 or more; tomato at Rs 2.25 or Rs 2.50 a kg, when the market price is over Rs 3.25; and onion at Rs 8 a kg (market price over Rs 10).     Reliance’s Monsoon Hungama package in 2003 that offered a multimedia mobile phone with a connection for an upfront payment of Rs 501 saw massive queues that included carpenters, rickshawpullers and push-cart vendors. What's happening now in vegetables and fruits is similar. And for consumers, generally reeling under high inflation, this price war couldn’t have come at a better time.     Fabmall actually started the price war this time in a limited way, pricing potatoes at Rs 8 a kg. Observers say this was in anticipation of Reliance’s entry. And it had the desired impact. Such was the run on Fabmall’s potato stocks that it compelled outlets to impose a 3 kg maximum purchase restriction.     Reliance entered soon after, on February 21, pricing potatoes at Rs 7.90 and a range of other vegetables at lower than market price. Pranab Barua, CEO of Trinethra Super Retail, which owns Fabmall, says the company is selling at lower margins and pricing some products very aggressively to attract consumers to the stores.
Fruit for Thought Organised retail can address the mess in Indian horticulture     Arecent World Bank report on India’s fruits and vegetables trade comes up with some sour facts. India produces 11 per cent of the world’s vegetables and 15 per cent of fruits at 53-63 per cent of global prices, but its share in global fruits and vegetables trade is 1.7 per cent and 0.5 per cent, respectively. How does one explain this mismatch? That Australian apples are cheaper in Tamil Nadu than apples from Himachal Pradesh tells us a great deal — that India’s chain of intermediaries and high transport costs rob horticulture of its competitive advantage. Farmers end up with just 15-20 per cent of the final price, as against 30-40 per cent in the US. A rentierdominated set-up like this creates a perverse set of incentives and disincentives. A horticulture farmer can be ruined if he produces more in a particular year — tomato and chilli farmers frequently destroy their produce — when he should actually be rewarded. He could make more money if his crop is partially, but not substantially, damaged, as was the case with onion farmers in 1999. As farmers’ leader Sharad Joshi points out, people cry hoarse when prices of onions or tomatoes cross Rs 40 a kg, but do not spare a thought for producers when prices dip to Rs 5 a kg. Even as the government draws up insurance plans for crop failures, it should take note of the fact that producers are unjustly penalised for overproduction. Farmers and consumers would be insulated from wild fluctuations if, instead of intermediaries, organised retailers were to enter the picture in a big way.     With their improved infrastructure and large scale of operations, big retailers will reduce both time and costs in the supply chain, and cut down on wastage. They would reward farmers for a good crop by holding prices at a constant, intermediate level, which would reconcile interests of producers and consumers. In Andhra Pradesh, for instance, mango producers suffer when they produce a bumper crop, because they cannot store the fruit for later release or divert it for value-additives. Agriculture needs to be industrialised in order to optimise resources and incentivise efficiency. Why not turn centres of horticulture into special economic zones, with part of the processed area devoted to storage facilities, value-addition industries and township development? India can emerge as the world’s food basket and more.
Left goes after govt with price-rise stick TIMES NEWS NETWORK New Delhi: Even though sections of the government are still hopeful that a “moderatehardliner” faultline in CPM might help stave off a showdown with Left and rescue the USIndia nuclear accord, the comrades opened a new front by assailing UPA for price rise.     The move to shift the “esoteric” 123 Agreement to bread and butter issues does not augur well for government as it reflects Left’s determination to gun for the government over a range of issues. The harsh tenor of Left speakers in Lok Sabha on Wednesday was also indicative of rapidly deteriorating ties.     The interventions of CPI’s Gurudas Dasgupta and CPM’s Anil Basu who attacked the government for failing to hold the price line and for not taking sufficient measures for helping farmers access credit seem pointers to things to come. Basu repeatedly asked finance minister P Chidambaram whether he has any answers to the lack of pro-poor focus in his policies — queries that the minister ignored with studied calm.     Despite signs of mounting Left-Congress tensions, there was still some hope in government that there could be de-escalation of hostilities by CPM. Prime Minister Manmohan Singh is understood to have been disappointed that West Bengal CM Buddhadeb Bhattacharjee was unable to attend party’s central committee meeting in Delhi due to his occupation with the visit of Japanese premier Shinzo Abe to Kolkata. Sections of government has been hoping that the moderates — like the West Bengal CM — would be able to persuade the CPM to take a softer line of the nuclear deal at least to the extent that it does not become a “deal or support” choice. So far, such expectations have been belied, forcing some government sources to acknowledge that moving forward on the pact might just become increasingly difficult. The turbulence has robbed the Shinzo Abe visit of some its gloss. This is despite expectation in government that there would be big benefits from the visit which follows Manmohan Singh’s visit to Japan in December last year. Dasgupta accused the government of failing to hold the price line and recalled its promise to keep essential commodities within the reach of ordinary people. Dasgupta said the prices of staples like pulses, potatoes and onions were on the rise. He regretted that despite finance minister’s assurance, nothing had been done. With CPM Central Committee in session to discuss the question of withdrawing support to government, the party MPs attacked government questioning its commitment to the common man. 50% of time lost to disruptions: Speaker     Concerned over the frequent disruption of House proceedings, Lok Sabha Speaker Somnath Chatterjee on Wednesday pointed out how half the time of the House last week was lost to adjournments. The ruckus over the nuke issue, which dominated most of the past week, resulted in only eight starred questions being orally answered against a list of 80. ‘‘During the last week, we lost 12 hours and 49 minutes due to interruptions and forced adjournments,’’ Chatterjee said. TNN
Steep rise in vegetable prices pinches hard Mamta Singh | TNN Lucknow: Prices of all vegetables have risen due to a shortage in supply caused by the rains and flooding. Tomatoes at Rs 28 per kg, onion at Rs 20 per kg and potatoes at Rs 12 for one kilograms have hit the budget of common household.The supply of almost all vegetables has been short in the ‘mandis’ leading to price rise. Small cauliflowers were at Rs 12 per piece, cabbage at Rs 19 per piece, capsicum at Rs 36 kg, gourd at Rs 10 per kg, yam at Rs 20 per kg, parval at Rs 28 per kg, taroi at Rs 16 per kg and pumpkin at Rs 8 per kg.     While some blamed short supply, others said that speculation (satta) or big malls picking up in bulk from mandis was the reason behind the hike.     “The main reason for vegetables arriving in low quantity is the rains in growing belts surrounding Lucknow, this affected the produce. Floods in east UP also affected the supply,” said director, agricultural marketing board Amrit Abhijat. “Tomatoes are being supplied from Himachal and as you well know that the state had undergone excessive flooding in the recent past affecting production. Onions we get from Maharastra and Indore, we have the situation under control and prices will cool down by this weekend. Rise in prices of tomatoes in the mandis were under our monitoring since the last two to three week, we have taken steps to increase supply,” Abhijat added.     Wholesale traders at Navin Phal and Sabji Mandi at Dubagga said the supply of most of the vegetables was short than what it was during the corresponding period last year mainly because lower output as well as bad weather conditions. “Prices in the wholesale and retail market vary extremely because the retailer wants to earn the maximum from his daily sales. In Dubagga onions are at Rs 13-14 per kg, Rs 14 to Rs 15 in galla mandi, tomatoes at Rs 10 per kg and Rs 11 at galla mandi, potatoes at Rs 5 to Rs 9 depending on variety. Prices of vegetables like cauliflower which we are getting from Nasik, capsicum from Solan (HP) would no doubt be steep but take local vegetables like, lauki, ladyfinger, bitter gourd will be affordable,” said president of Kisan Awam Arhadti Vikas Sewa Samiti, Mohd Farid Umar.     “There is no problem of transporting the vegetables according to me,” chairman Lucknow Truck Transporters Association Sardar Swarna Singh said.“It is the right time to give a bouquet of cauliflower with onion topping,” says Ravi Gahlaut, adding, “this will give more joy to the receiver rather than getting just flowers.”
Govt may ban onion export With onion prices hovering over Rs 20 a kg, the government may ban its export amidst demands to lift curbs on shipment of commodities like wheat and milk powder outside India. Sources said the proposal was discussed by a committee of secretaries tracking price movement of essential commodities, particularly food products, but a decision was deferred since commerce ministry had opposed the move as there were expectations of a dip in prices in coming weeks. TNN
EXCEPTION HERE
Atoms and Onions Instead of opposing N-deal, Left should help government tackle food prices     Prakash Karat’s new formula, that New Delhi should wait six months before operationalising the nuclear deal, is disingenuous. As anybody who reads these columns is aware, we disagree strongly with the view that the nuclear deal sells out India’s interests and therefore ought not to be signed. The Left holds a political view which it is entitled to hold. By proposing to put the deal in the freezer, however, it appears to want to kill the deal without quite taking responsibility for it.     It knows that election season will be on in the US in another six months. If the deal can be frozen till then it will pass from the Bush administration’s and US Congress’s priorities. It will also allow time for a subtle Chinese campaign against the deal to work its way through Capitol Hill. Since the deal was announced in July 2005, there’s been ample time to debate its pros and cons. Many nuclear scientists who had opposed the deal initially have been reassured by the final text of the agreement. Anil Kakodkar, chairman of the Atomic Energy Commission and one of the most influential among the early sceptics, is now at an IAEA conference in Vienna making the government’s case on nuclear energy cooperation. But Karat still thinks the country’s scientists and politicians need six more months to debate the deal. Clearly, an attempt to shelve it by consigning it to a committee.     Nevertheless there’s a window of opportunity here. The Left’s view is that the deal should not be operationalised for six more months. If that means the final signature can’t be placed on the deal for that period, that should be fine by the government. But Left politicians have been articulating the view that the government can’t even negotiate a safeguards agreement with the IAEA, a necessary step for the deal to go before US Congress. That’s a hardline position which, if it manages to scotch the deal, is going to cause incalculable harm to the country’s prestige.     There are issues more pressing for the ordinary voter which the Left should focus on and work with the UPA government to resolve. Domestic prices of food articles are climbing at 8.4 per cent, a much more rapid clip than the general inflation rate of 4 per cent. Crude oil prices have surged in the international market and domestic fuel prices too could go up. For the ordinary consumer it’s the price of onions, which has shot up 91 per cent over the past year, that matters more than an argument over atoms.
EDIT PAGE MAILBOX MY TIMES, MY VOICE PDS is plagued by several problems Your editorial ‘Hunger Pangs’ (Sep 18) reveals ignorance about the public distribution system in the states. The wheat, rice, sugar and kerosene distributed by the system are not free of cost. The prices at which they are made available are lower than the prevailing prices in the market. The price differential gives an incentive to the village shopkeeper to save these goods and make profits by selling them in the open market.     All PDS items are distributed through ration cards given to households in the urban and rural sectors of society. There are many in the rural sector below the poverty line who do not avail of the rations available under the system. They are aware of the availability and regularly visit the shops to register their drawings of ration against a certain price which the shopkeeper offers them. They leave the ration card with the shopkeeper and visit the shop every month to sign or put a thumb impression and get a fixed price for the same.     The non-drawing sections of the rural sector include small farmers who produce enough for themselves, landless labourers who draw wages in kind and the extremely poor who can’t afford to pay even the low prices of PDS goods.     Roshan Chaufla, VIA E-MAIL Left should concentrate on food prices Your editorial ‘Atoms and Onions’ (Sep 20) is timely. It is ironic that the anti-government tirade of the Left parties who claim to be the champions of common man is centred on the nuclear deal, rather than any of the problems which people are grappling with in their daily lives.     The common man is groaning under the cascading prices of essential items, unemployment is rising, forcing even educated young people to take to crime. Yet, not a word about these concerns from the Left! Sadly, other political parties are no better in this regard. Is it any wonder that people are getting disenchanted with all political parties?     Ravi Kant, GURGAON II With reference to your editorial ‘Atoms and Onions’, the Left’s proposal of keeping the US-India nuclear deal in abeyance for six months is a clear move to avoid the embarrassment of publicly backing down. India does need nuclear energy for various civil purposes. Hence, the practical solution would be to give a green signal to the accord with the rider that the Hyde Act will not prove a stumbling block in implementing the project.     Your suggestion to the Left to concentrate on bringing down the price of onions and food items rather than have a stubborn attitude towards the issue is very timely and should be heeded by all parties.     R N Lakhotia, VIA E-MAIL
Rs 30/kg: Onion leaves people teary-eyed Mamta Singh | TNN Lucknow: Onions prices at Rs 28 to Rs 30 per kg have brought tears in the common man’s eyes. Buyers and sellers suffer alike, “I have not bought onions from the mandis since the last two days,” says Lallan, a vendor. “Who will buy onions at Rs 30 per kg from me, each day the wholesale price increases by Rs 10 and is expected to go up further in times to come,” he said.     “It’s a grim situation,” said Sayeed, another vendor. “My per day profit used to be at least Rs 100 from sale of 80 kg to 90 kg onion at Rs 8 for a kg. Today it’s hard to earn even Rs 25 on a daily basis. I manage to sell 8 kg to 9 kg per day but there is only a slight profit margin,” he said.     “We cannot check the price hike as it is not in our control,” said Ranvir Singh Mahley, secretary mandi, Lucknow. “Only the Central government can do something to check prices. Unexpected heavy rains have affected standing crops in the onion producing regions in Maharastra and it is beginning to make its impact felt. It is said that even slight excess in rainfall can damage the highly perishable commodity. The prices have already firmed up sharply in Lasalgaon, the country’s largest onion market. Then again, as I read that Nafed has exported onions and this created a shortage. Short supply, heavy rains in Maharashtra and export commitments which have contributed to the price spiral,” he said.     The wholesale price in the main mandis have touched Rs 25 per kg. While at Dubaggha onion were being priced at Rs 18 to Rs 21 per kg. Although the wholesalers are giving any number of reasons for the sudden rise in the prices, sources also blame it on hoarding.     “Onion prices are expected to remain high till the new crop arrives in the market,” said Mohd Farid Umar, president, Kisan Awam Arhadti Vikas Sewa Smiti, Uttar Pradesh. The kharif crop of onion would arrive in the market by October 15, after which the prices would start falling.     “The market price of onion, a water-sensitive perishable crop, fluctuates with the weather,” said Mohd Farid Umar. Rain directly affects the quality and output of the crop. However, under the present circumstances, it is expected that onion prices will continue to remain in the same range. While wholesale traders said the supply was hit hard due to heavy rains. “Farmers have postponed harvesting right now. The arrival has come down by 10 per cent,” they said.     The buyers have their own woes as high prices have once again turned their monthly budget topsy turvey. “Everyone has his excuses and explanation while we with fixed income try to edge out our requirements,” said Shashi, a housewife. “We add more tomatoes and ginger to flavour our gravy,” she added.
CRYING ONIONS Mamta Singh | TNN Lucknow: Onions prices at Rs 28 to Rs 30 per kg have brought tears in the common man’s eyes. Buyers and sellers suffer alike, “I have not bought onions from the mandis since the last two days,” says Lallan, a vendor. “Who will buy onions at Rs 30 per kg from me, each day the wholesale price increases by Rs 10 and is expected to go up further in times to come,” he said.     “It’s a grim situation,” said Sayeed, another vendor. Report, P 3 
EXCEPTION HERE
SECOND OPINION We need to be more liberal about politics Jug Suraiya     Recently in India as the UN’s new global ambassador of peace, Hollywood actor-director George Clooney (frequently billed as the ‘sexiest man in the world’) in reply to a question put to him by a reporter remarked that he was “too liberal to go into politics”. In fact Clooney, as director of films like Good Night, And Good Luck, has well-proven liberal as well as political credentials.     But of course what Clooney meant was that his liberalism made him averse to a very specific type of politics, which is electoral politics, in which candidates for public office competitively solicit the support of voters.     We are — all of us, from George Clooney to the anonymous man on the street — involved with politics, whether we like it or not.     Almost anything that we do or say in our day-to-day lives or have an opinion about — be it from globalisation to climate change, school admissions to the price of onions — both reflects and reinforces an explicit or implicit political point of view.     To live in any society is necessarily to be both a product of, and a participant in, politics.     When, like Clooney, we say that we don’t want to enter politics, or that we are disinterested in the political process, or disenchanted by it, we are talking exclusively of electoral, or party, politics.     Electoral politics has its in-built pragmatic compulsions which may very well compromise one’s liberalism.     For instance, as a liberal you might strongly feel that a Taslima Nasreen ought not to have to go into hiding, or an M F Husain into exile, because of a bunch of religious or cultural zealots.     But if you were a practising politician and dependent on voters to retain or win your seat you might perforce have to give your liberalism the day off and become an apologist for the chorus of condemnation of the writer, or the artist.     The turmoil of electoral politics often requires dirtying one’s hands in muddy waters, whether it involves acquiescing in the strong-arm tactics of the moral police or condoning corruption as an essential lubricant of the party machine.     That’s why liberals like Clooney, or people from so-called ‘good families’ in India (political dynasties excepted, of course), are reluctant to enter electoral politics: it’s just too morally messy. So if liberals, and people from ‘good families’, won’t go into politics who will, by implication? Illiberals and people from ‘bad families’? Judging by the state of politics — in India, the US, and elsewhere — that’s exactly what seems to be happening, particularly where illiberalism is concerned.     If liberal people shun electoral politics, these politics — which inescapably impact all the many politics which make up our daily d i s c o u r s e and our myriad negotiations with each other — will inevitably become illiberal.     E l e c - toral politics, pragmatic politics, is based on the premise that the ideal is the enemy of the good.     If we keep searching for the mythical Holy Grail of the ideal, the little practical good we might have been able to do will never get done. If we are all too simon-pure to join, or to even think of joining, electoral politics as being too mucky for us, then we’ll end up getting the even muckier politics we deserve.     And what’s much worse, perhaps, is that we’ll end up getting the totally discredited, ivory tower liberalism which we’ll also deserve.
HERE’S YOUR CHECK-LIST Here is a portion of the sarkari wish list of 188 items exempted from VAT. Ideally, their price should not have shot up if not gone down. Has it? Decide for yourself: KITCHEN ’N HOME l Wheat, maida, suji, ramdana, singhara (whether fresh, dried or boiled), kutu flour and singhara flour l Curd, lassi, butter milk, fresh milk, pasteurised milk and separated milk l Meat, fish, prawn & other aquatic products (when not cured or frozen); eggs and livestock l Fresh vegetables and fruits including potato, onion, garlic and ginger l Bread — branded, otherwise or pizza bread, salt, branded or otherwise ACCESSORIES ’N CLOTHES (The ladies-special package)l Bangles made of glass or lac, kumkum, bindi, sindur, mehndi leaves and powder, kajal, hairpins, hairband, hair clip, (other than that of precious metal), safety pins. l Chikan products and Banarasi silk sarees, garments or fabric made of khadi / khaddar, handloom l Shawls & lois whether plain, printed, dyed or embroidered. RELIGION l Prasad, bhog, panchamrit, misri, Betel leaves l Kirpan; religious pictures not for use as calendar l Incense sticks (agarbatti) dhupkathi or dhupbatti, hawan samagri including dhoop, agarbatti, sambrani or lohbana.
Manic Panic! Scared that doomsday will soon be upon you? Worry that the mild gastric indigestion may really be sign of an impending heart attack? Welcome to the world of panicology where your fears, real or imagined, take total control, says Nona Walia TIMES NEWS NETWORK     JUST before the cricket match ends, how many of you go into a panic mode? How often do you get the jitters about being sacked? Are you worried often about not getting enough sex? Or why you're not getting pregnant? Ever wondered why do people go in a panic every time the stock market fluctuates!     We've almost made a hobby of panicking. Ask yourself, how often do you wrestle with panic? Don't worry; you're not the only one. Barely a day or week passes without us panicking about something. A Times Life snap poll conducted in metros of India about what’s worth worrying about and what’s not threw up a few surprises.     It seems we're panicking about a variety of things and the menu just got longer. We assessed panic in various areas of life: relationships (including marriage, sex, childlessness), health (obesity and serious illness), hobbies (drinking to dangerous art), society (pensions, debt and migrants), work (stress, jobs, promotion), law and order (including murder and terrorism). We asked men (age 23 to 47), women (23 to 47) and children (9 to 16) about what puts them in a state of panic.     People's fear stories have got wilder. We think of panic as 'something normal'. But how worried should we be about trivial things? Says psychiatrist Dr Avdesh Sharma, "Men fear not being the best. After job and financial anxiety, more men are worried about looking old and not being good in bed. They fear someone younger will replace them at work. There's great panic about losing control and getting angry at home or in public. Some men even worry over not being able to get enough sleep." That isn't all, men fear losing a cricket match, getting stuck in traffic jam, getting into a legal problem, taxation, illness of a loved one. Says cricketer Irfan Pathan, "A cricketer will get panicky before every game. But he can't afford to do that. He needs to be focused and cool. The trick is panic management. Solve your problem."     True. Ask Chandu Behl, 71, Delhi-based businessman, what does he panic about: "I stress about leaving my house unlocked, my business, taxation, road rage, health, fire, safety of loved ones. Most of my panic is imaginary." While rating panic, more men admit, loneliness is a growing fear. Then there's an increasing pressure to be a social animal. Says Karan Chandok, 25, working in a Gurgaon BPO, "I get very panicky when I have to walk to a party all alone. I wonder if I'll get the right partner to dance with. What if girls laugh at me? I feel uneasy when I think about it." A 25-year-old Mumbai boy fears bad luck every time he leaves his house in the morning.     Vinay Lal, director, University of California (UCLA) says, "As India becomes more modern, we're bound to panic differently. We're experiencing different kinds of fears. Some are irrational and illogical. Others are more profound. Migration of people to urban clusters has increased the things we panic about. Fear for safety because of law and order has driven people to seek justice themselves."     Why are we getting fixated with fear? A new book Panicology tries to resolve the angst we feel about situations and things. The authors Simon Briscoe and Hugh Aldersey-Williams, tell Times Life, "It's fashionable to worry about a variety of things, we have a bigger list of exotic worries. The problem is that we are poor at distinguishing between the amusing and entertaining —think of all those scary movies — and the real threats to our lives. We chat more and use the Internet that could be a reassuring process but often works in the opposite direction. It is a shame that we are not better at assessing risk in our lives," says Simon.     We asked a 26-year-old Mumbai girl to rate her scares out of 10, here what she said: Fear of losing a loved one — 10, jealousy — 7, faith issues — 6, loneliness — 8, family problems — 7, evil eye — 4, reputation — 5, clothes malfunction — 9.     Take Surabhi Mathur, schoolteacher, every other morning she panics about leaving the kitchen gas on. Says US-based Indian actor Sheetal Sheth, "Everyday you fret over things. But sometimes we women panic over non-issues. I think, we need to control our impulsive worrying over things like looks, weight etc. Real panic should be over serious concerns."     Can we judge more astutely the real risks that face us? Says Priya Sarukkai Chabria, author, "We need right information to evaluate our fears. In conservative societies, there's fear of losing social standing. There's a pressure to be the best. Just talk to someone and half your anxiety is irrational."     According to Panicology.com, people in different countries might fear different things (the Danes apparently worry most about nuclear power, the British about terrorist attacks, the Italians about radiation from their beloved mobile phones), yet anxiety is everywhere a condition of modern life. Says Hugh Aldersey-Williams, author of Panicology, "Giving people more freedom means that they have more to decide about — what sort of food to eat, what energy to consume, what school, doctor, hospital to use, etc — and this induces worry and panic."     "Children are particularly worried about their bodily changes, and if they're looking like their icons. If a girl is over-weight, she goes through panic," adds Sharma.     The big question is: how should we keep the calm? Says Geetanjali Prasad, relationship and family expert, "When we were in joint family, we could talk about our concerns, now there's no outlet. Hence, we're anxious about everything because we do not have access to right information. There's insecurity, danger of losing job, husband. I was always superstitious when people told my husband we make a great couple. I panicked about nazar. It was crazy but true. Today, stress and competition give you anxiety. It's all about being good in bed, at work, at home. But we need to cut back the stresses and keep our calm."     WORRYING ABOUT     EVERYTHING     When bird flu scare hit Delhi last month, Tandoori chicken was left untouched and uncooked! And when we’d just recovered from this scare, we heard Earth was going to be hit by a satellite. Now, as we near Earth Day, environmentalists are scaring us about a climatic change. Even TIME magazine warns, ‘Be worried, be very worried.’ The science of panicology is taking a new shape. It seems people are worrying themselves silly about everything and anything. From rising prices of petrol, gold to vegetables. Now it’s ladies who’re worrying about going bald.     We’re also freaking out over dry taps and no electricity. Imagine being in an urban office with no water, air-conditioning and non-functional loo! Enough to send you in a panic. Onion shortage is known to give grandmom stress! Just the other day, a woman was panicking how a lunar eclipse in August would throw her life into topsy-turvy. Meanwhile, Italian men not helping much around the house is apparently one of the principal reasons why their women are producing so few babies. While Indians are worrying about overpopulation right now. Going to a cinema hall for a movie brings its own panic attacks, what if there’s a b**b!     Right now, everybody’s     favourite panic story — being fat. The list is long one     with every individual having his/her own     panic story!! What men fear? l 80% men fear accidents l 80.5% panic about their job and finances l 79% worry about their sexual performance l 65.5% stressed about paying bills on time l 70% men fear being laughed at l 50% fear loneliness What women fear? l 85% panic about office politics l 79% fear about relationships — marriage, sex, betrayal l 68% panic about not being liked enough l 50% panic about household jobs, maidservant going on leave (Trivial panics are about weight, looks and health issues. Almost 78% women panic if they put on weight) What children fear? l 80% panic about losing friends l 90% worry about doing badly in exams l 50% fear being laughed at or bullied l 75% girls want to make a good impression
Duty cuts, export curbs on food products to rein in prices TIMES NEWS NETWORK New Delhi: The government went into a huddle late on Monday evening with Prime Minister Manmohan Singh convening a meeting of the cabinet committee on prices to decide on fiscal measures to rein in inflation, which is threatening to give the UPA regime a full-blown political headache.     On the table, commerce minister Kamal Nath said before the meeting got under way, were measures to cut import duties on food items to zero in order to ease constrictions in supplies of commodities. He said that demand for steel and cement in the construction sectors had also to be met. The thrust of the government’s strategy was to allow imports by bringing down tariff barriers for items like soyabean oil and also to source food items like pulses in the global market. Proposals to restrict exports for items like non-basmati rice were also expected to get the nod.     Earlier in the day, the government consulted three national commodity exchanges to elicit their opinion on whether to ban futures trading in potatoes and edible oil. The exchanges are understood to have pointed out that banning futures in wheat, rice and a few pulses last year had not eased prices. Removal of export subsidy on cotton and sugar was also seen to be on the cards, as were withdrawal of other export incentives. The intense firefighting exercise was clearly necessitated by a 13-month high in inflation of 6.68% which did not augur well for Congress in the runup to the state polls and the general election next year. But even as the Manmohan Singh government grapples with inflation with price rise becoming a political headache, its major concern on the food security front may well be meeting in coming weeks the procurement targets for wheat. TIGHTENING GRIP OF INFLATION 1 The Problem     Official inflation rate has more than doubled in last 4 months from 3.3% to 6.7%     Inflation in food articles has risen from 1.8% in Dec to 5.6% on March 15     Pressure on the poor is worse as their consumption basket consists more of food items which are becoming costlier 2 What Netas Say CPM has set an April 15 deadline for govt to curb prices Cong core committee has asked govt to check inflation fearing adverse impact on electoral prospects BJP has threatened countrywide protests from Apr 7 Chidambaram says check on inflation will lower growth. 3 Why They Say This Inflation has been the most potent election issue in India In 1980, high onion prices were seen as main reason for Cong’s return to power. In the 1998 assembly polls in MP, Rajasthan and Delhi, high onion prices saw ruling governments being swept out 4 What Could Follow Tight money supply to curb prices Higher interest rates for industry and individuals may follow This may squeeze demand, impact growth There could be trouble for stock market and real estate 5 Options & Difficulties     Import grain, edible oils, pulses to curb prices. Will not help as global prices also running high. Unless subsidised, imports will not curb prices Cut import duties on commodities. But that will antagonise domestic producers. In any case, global prices are running high Welfare sops account for 10L tonnes/month New Delhi: A review of the food situation has underlined that procurement will be crucial to government’s efforts to maintain buffer stocks and supplies for the slew of welfare schemes that have been expanded as well as prioritized. The outgo of foodgrain, at least on paper, for welfare schemes like mid-day meal and food-for-work is around 10 lakh tonnes a month.     These commitments flow from the common minimum programme and even if they are not always efficiently monitored, provisions have to made. Similarly, PDS has been criticized by both finance minister P Chidamabaram and agriculture minister Sharad Pawar for being ineffective and leaky. But political considerations of providing for the poor will prevail even if Pawar has pointed to massive diversions, even to Bangladesh.     The peculiar dilemma facing the government is that procurement becomes problematic despite good wheat production — a shade over 75 million tonnes —being projected for this year. This is because farmers have become more choosy with private players entering the market as well as due to expectations that the mimimum support price might be increased.TNN
Inflation breaches 7% mark Prices Of Food Products, Manufactured Goods Continue To Rise TIMES NEWS NETWORK New Delhi: As prices of vegetables, cereals and various manufactured goods continue to rise, inflation further rose to a 39-month high of 7% during the week ended March 22, up from 6.68% in the previous week. Inflation had touched 7.02% for the week ended December 4, 2004.     According to data released by government, prices of gram (chana) rose by 2.7% to Rs 38 per kg on April 1 as against Rs 37 a month-earlier. Sugar now costs nearly 6% more at Rs 18 per kg, mustard oil by 2.6% at Rs 77 per kg, vanaspati by 10.14% at Rs 76 per kg and onion by 11.11% at Rs 10 per kg in the said period.     However, prices of rice, wheat, atta, tur, groundnut oil, milk, potato and salt remained stable.     And, after taking steps like duty cuts, government is now thinking of some tough measures. Commerce and industry minister Kamal Nath said the government will not hesitate to take the harshest measures, including using legal provisions against hoarding and profiteering in any items like food, cement or steel.Nath said the country is facing the biggest challenge of providing food to poor people. On May 31, just after the inflation had crossed 6.5% mark, government had asked state governments to initiate steps to discouragehoarding of food stocks by individual traders under Essential Commodities Act.     The government on the same day also announced scrapping of import duties on crude edible oils to nil and refined edible oils to 7.5%, along with banning exports of nonbasmati rice and increasing export price of basmati rice to check inflation at home.     The prices of many of the food items have declined since the government has taken policy measures. But, it will reflect in the inflation figure for the week ended April 4, 2008, whose will come after a 15 days.     During the week under review, which ended on March 22, prices of fruits and vegetable went up by 1%, gram went up by 3%, masur by 2%, while urad and moong, eggs, meat and fish got dearer by 1%. Prices of oil seeds also rose by around 5%.     In the mineral category, the prices rose very sharply. Price of iron ore increased 46% and price index for mineral went up by 38.2%. Inflation in the primary articles stood at 8.96% as against 5.6% in the food articles. The government hopes that inflation could be arrested soon as the demand for commodities in the international market will come down because of the recession in the developed countries.     If needed, a senior government official said RBI will take measures to tighten the liquidity condition.
Short Circuit Demand-supply mismatch fuels inflation     The spectre of inflation is haunting India. With inflation at 7 per cent, fears that the economy could slow down are real. That rising food prices are contributing to inflation is reason enough for the government to worry. Onion prices have in the past decided the winner in elections. The present phase of inflation has come after a long period of sustained growth. After a period of plenty, we are facing a situation of shortage. The problem with inflation is that it is a self-fulfilling prophecy. Expectations of impending inflation lead to further inflation. So far, the government and the RBI have tried to contain inflation through monetary policies, essentially by sucking out excess liquidity in the market. Over-dependence on monetary measures to control inflation could slow down industrial growth and lead to recession.     The government should crack down on hoarders, while advising consumers not to panic. A slew of policy measures is necessary to address supply-side shortages. In the case of food, the government has already proposed duty cuts to facilitate imports and has banned the export of cereals and edible oil. More needs to be done. There is greater demand for food in India now, which is welcome. But our production has not kept pace with the increase in demand. Food prices across the world have hardened in response to shortages in India. It may become necessary for the government to subsidise imports to keep domestic prices under control. However, this has to be done without hurting the interests of producers at home.     All these are short-term solutions. Food security calls for long-term planning in order to correct the mismatch between demand and supply. Foodgrains don’t fetch attractive prices and farmers are migrating to cash crops. The trend is not unique to India; in countries like the US farmers are shifting from corn to biofuels. As rice and wheat prices off the farm don’t reflect the increase in input costs, there is need to incentivise cereal production. One way to make foodgrain cultivation profitable is to increase productivity.     Experts claim that a 50 per cent increase in yields is possible if we judiciously use technology that is currently available. Our average yields per hectare in rice and wheat are half that of China. Moreover, the pressure on land is only going to increase as India rapidly urbanises. As such, the focus ought to be on increasing productivity and plugging leakages in procurement and distribution. Better extension services and procurement and distribution networks are necessary if food prices are to be kept under check. All such policies have to benefit both producers and consumers. Else, onion-tears will be shed.
Rise only in ‘seasonal’ items, claim vendors TIMES NEWS NETWORK     The rise in the prices of fruits and vegetables by 20-30 per cent in a span of three months has hit the common man on his basic needs. Though the bigger players of the market have every reason to support their argument that the rise in price is particularly in the seasonal fruits and vegetables and will come down in the near future, the common man finds it hard to buy the claims.     TOI went out in the city market to make comparative study of the prices of fruits and vegetables that was there in the month of December last year and that of the current period. The prices taken into consideration are of average quality fruits/vegetables. One of the most consumed fruits, apple has shown a tremendous rise in price. It used to cost around Rs 45 per kg in December but now it costs nearly double. Same has been the increase in the case of oranges. Oranges cost around Rs 35 per kg in December but now one will get a kilo only if one is ready to pay Rs 60. The retail fruit sellers of the city believe the price rise to be because the season of some fruits has come to an end. Kamal Sahu a retail fruit vendor talking to TOI said, “Prices of oranges and apples have increased because their production season has almost come to an end.” Sahu added, “Another reason for the rise in prices is that the festival of Navaratri is going on.” It is not only the fruits that have shown an increase in price but also the vegetables that have burnt a hole in the pocket of a middle class consumer. One of the basic vegetables for a common man’s consumption, potato has shown a rise in price, as in December its cost was Rs five for a kilo and now it is selling for Rs 10 a kilo.     A house wife Urmila Srivastava talking to TOI said, “Vendors might claim any reason for the price rise but the ground reality lies that it has adversely effected our budget.”     When TOI inquired of the vendors if hoarding was one of the reasons behind the rise in the prices they denied instead claiming that prices of only seasonal fruits and vegetables had increased.
‘Ban on trading in futures is no answer to inflation’ Mahendra Kumar Singh | TNN New Delhi: Just as the political pressure on government to ban trading in futures is mounting with Left calling for such measures, the ministry of consumer affairs, food and public distribution has opposed the proposal by bluntly arguing that there was no direct correlation in price rise and trading of commodities in the futures market.     However, the ministry said a final decision should be put on hold till the Abhijit Sen committee on futures trading submitted its report. The ministry, headed by Sharad Pawar, has said there is no link between spiralling prices and futures trading. Making its point against a ban, the ministry cited price variation of tur and urad. A senior ministry official said the Futures Market Commission (FMC) had delisted futures contracts of urad and tur from January 23, 2007 as a precautionary measure. At that time, futures of urad were showing a declining trend. The futures of tur, however, were showing an upward trend.     The official said it was seen that after delisting, spot prices of urad did come down. Since FMC’s intervention had caused market perturbation, it is a moot point whether the decline in prices of urad was a result of delisting or a mere confirmation of the trend already indicated by the futures, he added.     For tur, it was observed that spot prices continued to rise even after delisting. The futures, in any case, were also indicating a similar trend.     After more than a year, price of urad is less this year than last year and price of tur is more than last year while both are still delisted.     Officials said that onion and potato were broadly classified as perishables. Potato has a future derivatives market but onion does not. However, both showed large market volatility and fluctuation in prices. This suggests that the fundamental reason for movement of prices was not necessarily due to the derivatives market but factors like seasonal variations and transport bottlenecks, the official said.     The ministry argued that futures of sugar existed but its price had declined by about 25% in the last year and futures had been predicting this trend. Rice, delisted one year back, saw wholesale prices going up by about 26% in the last year which may be attributed to rise in world prices. Prices across the world have gone up from $400-500 a tonne to over $700, and expected to cross $1,000 by June.     The consumer ministry went on to argue that cement was not traded on the commodity exchange, still it showed substantial increase in prices which, it said, was essentially due to demand-supply mismatch.     mahendra.singh@timesgroup.com 
Don’t Hold Us Back Petty politicians have thwarted India’s great power ambitions Meghnad Desai These are strange times. We have a deep financial crisis. Since last summer, several rescue attempts by three major central banks — Fed, European Central Bank and Bank of England — have still not resolved it. I expect that the restructuring of asset values while restoring liquidity will take its time and then we will have to devise new regulatory structures. So the next two years will be busy for the central banks and for the Bank of International Settlement at Basle.     But we also have inflation in food prices, which is worldwide, and oil prices that seem to defy gravity. Of course, the dollar having depreciated the price of oil quoted in terms of dollars is bound to go up just for that reason. In real terms, an oil price of $105 is just equal to the peak price of 1980. Yet the nagging question remains: Are we in the midst of a routine post-war cycle or are we at the conjuncture of some great shift in the global economy? Let me explore the latter option.     We begin with the cliche that this time around it is not the developed West which is in the vanguard of the global economy, but India and China and the other emerging economies, especially Brazil, which will shape the system. The oil price rise is driven almost entirely by China’s demand and the chaotic politics of Nigeria and Venezuela. The high growth rate of the emerging economies plus the large excess savings they have as reflected in their reserves will mean a shift of ownership of assets as the western economies consume and the growing emerging economies invest in these assets.     There was an idea that the emerging economies would be decoupled from the western economies and insulated from the downturn. But financial flows bind them in a symbiotic embrace. The surplus savings sustain the innovative but indolent West while the frugal but copycat emerging economies lap up the new innovations and turn them into wealth. The latter have the workforce and the former have the brain force. As long as trade flows are reasonably free of protectionist forces the symbiosis ought to work.     The inflationary forces arise as a logic of this symbiosis. The emerging economies save but what they consume are necessities, mainly food, as previously poor families can afford to eat what their parents could only dream of. Their industrial activity is still run on old energy-intensive lines which went out in the western economies in the 1980s. So oil and food rise in price while computers, mobile phones and iPods get cheaper. This is why the overall price indexes show even now a much lower rate of inflation than people experience in their daily shopping. Prices of what they buy daily or weekly are going up fast as industrial products get cheaper.     This is true of emerging and western economies. But petrol bites more in western economies. Yet in these economies, citizens and politicians do not expect governments to bring inflation down immediately nor do they blame the party in power for the price of onions. The economic ignorance on display in Indian politics is breathtaking. Many cultures believe in witch doctors to bring rainfall or cure epidemics. Why should governments be able to either cause inflation or cure it instantaneously? Demands to restrict traders or nationalise them or ban forward trading are as futile as rushing to the well of the Lok Sabha. Indeed the BJP may as well chant the Hanuman Chalisa while they are at it. The Left will have to find some suitably obscure text from its archives. Marx is no help in these matters because he does not share the ignorance of the Indian Left on economics.     The present situation has tremendous longrun consequences for India if only there was awareness among politicians about it. India could become a great power along with China and Brazil, with the US as the only serious survivor from the western economies. But if India is to become a great power, it needs to     play a winner and not a victim.     The Left is wedded to the 1950s’ Leninist orthodoxy in which the monopoly capitalists of the western economies block the developing economies and only persistent anti-Americanism assures autonomy and growth. China has abandoned this naive doctrine, as has Vietnam. Only North Korea and Cuba hang on to it. The nationalists of the BJP are too hung up on Pakistan and trivialities like Ram Setu. Obsessive concerns with reservations occupy the rest of the parties. (Does Mayawati have a foreign policy? Does she even have a map of the world in her office?) The Congress, which should have the sense to break free of such small-mindedness, is too preoccupied with preparing the way for Rahul Gandhi’s succession and has no wish to challenge the Left or even the BJP.     Hence the total stagnation on the US nuclear deal for the last 10 months. Hence the timid reshuffle, which did not give the younger generation its due place.     Indian business has retooled itself, given its younger generation trained in Harvard, Stanford and Wharton leadership positions and taking on the world. Indian politics, however, is stuck in the parochial and trivial concerns of geriatric has-beens. Politics in India is a century behind its business. India cannot hope to be a great power with small politicians. The writer is a member of the British House of Lords.
Cong mulls ‘aam admi’ price index to control inflation Subodh Ghildiyal | TNN New Delhi: And now an “aam admi” price rise index?Congress is witnessing a demand for a separate index to measure fluctuations in prices of food items, as it emerges that the Wholesale Price Index does not correctly reflect the prices of commodities which matter most to the common man. It is felt that while government has managed to control the prices of edible items like select pulses, oils and onions over three weeks, those of metals and construction material continued on an upward spiral. They together contribute to the calculation of WPI, on the basis of which the Centre computes weekly inflation figures.     WPI lends higher weightage to items “far removed from daily needs of common man” like gold, steel and infrastructure inputs. Presently, prices of 435 items are taken into account to compute the index and food items get a weightage of less than 16%.     Congress strategists feel a wider WPI marginalises gains the Centre has made in reining in prices of select food items which are more important to the party’s support base, while continuing to create an impression that daily costs were shooting through the roof.
Get Used To It Government had no option but to hike price of fuel Bhaskar Dutta Warwick: After a prolonged period of indecision, the UPA government has finally raised prices of petroleum products. This decision comes at a time when the rate of inflation is already running at around 8 per cent. Of course, the rise in petroleum prices will further increase the inflationary pressures in the economy.     Popular wisdom has it that the rise in onion prices was responsible for the fall of one government in the past. So, with elections not very far away, it is not surprising that the government dithered for such a long time before finally biting the bullet. It must have realised that the decision to raise prices would be exploited by its political opponents. Clearly, it must have felt that it had run out of options.     It is not difficult to see why the government was forced to come to this unpalatable conclusion. Crude oil prices in international markets have more than doubled during the course of the last year, and are currently at $128 per barrel. There is no consensus on the future trend in crude prices, except that everyone agrees that prices will never come close to the levels witnessed a year ago. Some ‘experts’ believe that the international oil market is being illegally rigged, and that prices will come down to $90 a barrel some time next year. The flip side of the coin is that an equally large number of experts predict further increases, with one estimate being a mind-boggling $200 a barrel!     So, there is absolutely no reason to believe that we are currently in a temporary regime of an “oil shock”, which will soon pass away. Perhaps that is why there has been a sharp increase in retail prices of petroleum products in practically every oil-importing country. For instance, motorists in England paid 90 pence a litre less than a year ago. The price last week was around £1.20 — an increase of over 30 per cent. Several other countries have witnessed even sharper increases in prices.     Why should this come as a surprise to anyone? If a country has to import oil, then it has to pay the prevailing international price. There is no scope for bargaining! And then the country as a whole has to bear the brunt of higher prices. In most countries, retail prices are not controlled and so the full increase in prices is passed on to the final customer. In countries like India where retail prices are controlled, the final users typically pay less than the full increase in the cost of oil imports. So, those who do not use petroleum products — or use less of them — end up subsidising those who use these products more intensively. There is no way of escaping this unpleasant fact.     In a blatant and naked show of political opportunism, all the opposition parties have taken the government to task for its decision to raise petroleum prices. The BJP has called it an act of “economic terrorism”, while the Left parties have gone one step further and taken their agitation to the streets with bandhs and agitations.     The reaction of the Left parties is particularly hypocritical. After all, they claim to represent the poorer sections of society. But, now they are up in arms because the users of petrol and LPG cylinders will enjoy a lower level of subsidies on these products. In other words, the poorer sections who do not own cars and cannot afford two meals a day and hence do not buy LPG cylinders will now bear a smaller share of the burden.     This is neither stupidity nor shortsightedness on the part of the Left parties. An increase in prices is an overt action, observed and felt by everyone, and particularly by those who actually have to pay the higher prices. So, a public show of anger against the increase in prices will certainly earn the Left some extra votes from the urban middle class.     On the other hand, the poor pay for the petroleum subsidies in indirect and hidden ways. For instance, the losses suffered by the public sector oil companies are ultimately borne by the exchequer. So, every rupee of loss incurred by the oil companies translates into a rupee less of government expenditure on say rural health care or elementary schools. Reductions of excise or customs duty on oil imports — a favourite suggestion of the Left — also mean lower revenues with the government, and hence lower public expenditures. What is crucial here is that this connection is not immediately apparent. And so the poor will not take the Left to task for making them pay for the petroleum subsidies.     There have also been suggestions of a “windfall” tax on companies in order to subsidise petroleum prices. At first sight, this seems an attractive suggestion. After all, companies are owned by the richer section, and so why should we care if some of the profits are siphoned off in the form of higher taxes? But, if corporate taxes can be increased without adverse consequences in other forms, this should be done anyway to increase social sector expenditure!     Finally, there is an additional justification for the price hike. The higher the price of say LPG cylinders, the greater will be the inclination to reduce its usage. In other words, the increase in prices will typically reduce overall consumption of petroleum products, thereby lowering the overall oil import bill.     The writer is professor of economics at Warwick University.
People’s ‘worst fear’ comes true Fuel Price Hike Sends Inflation Soaring TIMES NEWS NETWORK Lucknow: When a hike of Rs 5 in petrol price was effected a week ago, Kishen Chandra Maurya, a government servant, apprehended that something ‘‘even more shocking’’ was in store for him in the days to come. ‘‘It was just a matter of time. And I guessed it right,’’ he now says. His worst fear of a hike in fuel prices has turned out to be true. Conservatively speaking, a five to 10 per cent hike in the rates of essential commodities has been witnessed in the last two to three days in the state capital.     Sample this: Refined oil, which was selling at Rs 75 per litre a week back, is now selling at an all-time high of Rs 80. Setting common man’s kitchen on fire is the rise in prices of dal and rice, which have gone up by an average of Rs 2 per kg. This means that rice, which was selling at Rs 14 per kg a week ago, is now being sold at Rs 16. Likewise, arhar dal which stood at Rs 45 per kg just five days back is now available at Rs 46.     Most retailers attribute the rise to a general inflationary trend which has gripped the country. However, there are many who candidly attribute price rise to escalation of fuel prices. ‘‘The transportation cost has increased,’’ is how AL Arora, a general merchant on Rana Pratap Marg, reasons for the soaring of prices of essential commodities.     In fact, according to some, the rise came into force the very next day of the hike in fuel prices, ie, on the midnight of June 4. ‘‘It was very much predicted,’’ said Devendra Tewari, a small retailer in Indira Nagar. He said that he was still selling his old stock and hence was not charging inflated rates. ‘‘But this would not continue for long,’’ he said. The cascading effect of the rise in fuel prices has also hit the vegetable and fruit market. A hike of 10-20 per cent in the rates of vegetables has been witnessed within a span of five to seven days. Take for example the case of potato, which was available at the rate of Rs 5 per kg a week back, is now selling for Rs 7 per kg. So is the case with onion which is following a similar trend. Likewise, ladyfinger which was selling at Rs 4-6 per kg a week back, is now available at Rs 7-8 per kg. Ridge gourd (torai) too has witnessed a similar hike. Most of the vendors do not provide any reason for the hike, though some of them do admit that ‘‘it is the transportation cost’’. ‘‘I have no idea how should I meet these escalating these expense. I remember a time when Rs 3000 were enough to support the household expenses of my family of four. But today the amount is just not enough,’’ said Rita Singh, a resident of Kaiserbagh.     Interestingly, whole-sellers are crying hoarse over retailers increasing the prices of the essential commodities substantially. President of UP Fruits/Vegetables Seller Welfare Samiti Satish Sonkar claimed that there has not been any increase in the wholesale prices of vegetables despite a hike in fuel prices. ‘‘We are also getting reports from various districts, including Lucknow, that retailers have raised prices of commodities substantially,’’ he said.
Business doubles as people stock up food Deep Gazmer | TNN Darjeeling/Siliguri: It was almost like any other day. Shops were open, people were buying and selling, the roads were crowded. But the busy look could barely mask the ripples of tension coursing through Chowk Bazar, Darjeeling’s biggest market. No one wanted to miss the six o’ clock deadline — when GJM would resume its indefinite strike and bring the Hills to a standstill.     Rumours flew through the crowded hub. The strike would be relaxed soon, said some. Others said it would continue, like the Biblical deluge, for 40 days. And with each prediction, the buying frenzy ebbed and flowed.     Vegetable and grocery shops had stocked up essential rations during the three-day breather. But such was the rush that many shops sold out their stocks even before the deadline expired. ‘‘We had enough goods over the past two days but today we sold most of our stocks. We have only flour and oil now,’’ said a grocery shop owner at Chowk Bazaar. Big retail outlets, however, said their stocks would last at least 10-15 days.     Following the GJM’s order to prevent an abnormal hike in prices, most shops sold vegetables at regular rates. ‘‘We are selling potato at Rs 6, tomato at Rs 16 and onion at Rs 10 per kg. The vegetables will rot once the strike is enforced,’’ said Shyam Lal, a vegetable seller.     The frantic buying spree in the Hills left traders in Siliguri all smiles.
Indira felt inflation heat twice, NDA wept onion tears in 1998 Ashish Sinha | TNN New Delhi: It’s not often that inflation has impacted Indian elections. But on the occasions that price rise has become a central issue, it has had enough force to nearly alter the country’s political course.     In the mid-1960s, India witnessed all-round economic dislocation triggered by food shortages and famines. So much so that the government had to go begging at the doors of the West.     Socialist stalwart Ram Manohar Lohia then gave a call for ‘‘Daam Bandho’’ (check prices) and the 1967 elections saw non-Congress parties sweeping the polls in seven states, at a time when there was hardly any credible alternative to the Congress.     ‘‘Price rise protests became such a wave that the Lok Sabha, for the first time, got a huge and vibrant opposition with Socialists like Minoo Masani leading the assault,’’ recalled former BJP MP, Som Pal.     The mid-70s, when people had been fairly disenchanted by Indira Gandhi’s failed ‘‘Garibi hatao’’ call, also saw the economy facing inflationary pressure. By 1974, a movement against corruption led by Jai Prakash Narayan had started sweeping various parts of the country. ‘‘The international oil price hike — termed the oil shock — had serious domestic ramifications. The first railway strike was successful. The combined impact of the anti-government agitation led to the clamping of Emergency in 1975 and in 1977, the Congress was routed all around,’’ said columnist Swapan Dasgupta. Ironically, Indira Gandhi used the rising price of onions to mount a comeback in 1980.     The next big instance was in 1998, when rising prices of onions and other vegetables had hit the common man hard. In state polls that year, the ruling BJP was decimated in Delhi and Rajasthan and despite its high claims, it could not stop Congress from returning to power for a second term in Madhya Pradesh.     But as journalist Ram Bahadur Rai put it, it is difficult to predict the impact rising prices — or conversely, government’s success in keeping prices in check — has on voter behaviour. ‘‘The NDA government kept inflation under check from 1999 to 2004 but it still lost the elections. The present round of inflation has been triggered by the US through stupendous rise in crude oil prices. If the government, inclined to sign the nuclear deal, is so pro-US, the Americans should help it by slashing crude oil prices,’’ he said.     Som Pal said earlier rounds of inflation resulted more from supply-side constraints when growth was nominal and restrictive practices of the licence-permit raj abetted it. ‘‘But the present round of inflation has new dimensions. The purchasing power of the middle and upward classes has gone up. The economy is witnessing oligopolistic tendencies (when a handful of sellers influence prices). The common man and those working in the unorganized sector have been hit the hardest. It should have a more pronounced political impact,’’ he said. INFLATION & ELECTIONS 1967 | Congress routed in 7 states; party’s majority in LS reduced 1977 | Post-emergency polls throw Congress out of power at the Centre for the first time 1980 | Indira uses onion prices as poll plank to make comeback 1998 | BJP, at power in the Centre, loses Delhi and Rajasthan; Congress comes back for a second term in Madhya Pradesh
ERRATICA Melon water good for your daughter BACHI KARKARIA And even better for your son, if a TOI dispatch from the US is true. The Democratic race having ended with Hillary’s lemon and Barack’s cherry, our Washington correspondent found fresh juice in a watermelon. The Viagra-like qualities of the humble tarbooj have been exciting lab-land since 2006, but the current version gives a boost to India Rising as well. Our Chidanand Rajghatta reported last Thursday that a group of Texas researchers has pumped up the reputation of the watermelon as a libido enabler, and that the team was led by the institute’s director of Indian origin, Dr Bhimangouda Patil, ‘Bhimu’ to colleagues and friends.     The scientists reiterated that the nourishing phyto-nutrients found in this common fruit react with the human system to improve its performance and fight problems raging from osteoarthritis to erectile dysfunction. Hallelujah! Since hundreds can be grown in every dry river bed, the lowly watermelon could not only save face, it could also save rhinos, tigers and all the other animals who have been savagely poached only to salvage the scrambled sex life of human males.     Less earthshakingly, this finding could also give an all-new meaning to the ‘Watermelon Smoothie’, which was simply an item on upmarket menus before it was marketed as an upper for men. The description could now be applied to the erstwhile sexual slouch who has turned into a bedroom charmer simply by quaffing an eight-ounce glass of this elixir. Picture the recharged fellow biting into his beloved’s soft flesh, spitting out the seeds, and activating body chemistry by whispering such sweet-nothings as ‘My lycopene, my betacarotene, how i adore your citrulline.’ As ‘Bhimu’ told ‘Chidu’, these are the magic bullets which can pump life into everything, from sagging skin to flagging desire.     As with almost everything, there is both bad news and good news in watermelons becoming life-members of the Big Boys Club. The bad news is that they may be bigger, but they are not better; scientists concede that they are not organ specific like Viagra is. The good news is that they don’t cost an arm and a leg, nor will they give you a headache or a heart attack, two of the side-effects of the little, blue, diamondshaped pill.     We have only just put behind us the sweltering summer during which this cheap fruit so generously provides relief. Now, since it can be counted upon to heat things up and not just cool you down, presumably it will no longer be dumped like a scraped-out shell collecting flies on the roadside while rain-foods sweep in to rule the roast.     But i have a problem. Like potatoes, onions and masoor dal, watermelons too were hit by the price rise. Now this new form of inflation could push this poor man’s fruit into the truly expensive league of other aphrodizziacs such as asparagus and oysters. Could this be a conspiracy hatched by an America whose president had himself stated that he could not stomach the improved eating habits of India and China?     And guess what? Even as unlikely a target as the Mumbai Traffic Police could also be affected. The Texas researchers say that the sexual potency of the melon lies in its rind, not in the fleshy inside that is traditionally slurped up. So, our cops would have to revise their recent attempt at humour. Their electronic billboard read: ‘Stop for Red and Go for Green — except when eating watermelon.’ Now we must do the opposite, or we’ll be in a jam. Alec Smart said: ‘‘What’s the new marching order? ‘Left, Wrong, Left!’.’’
Inflation affects green grocery market too TIMES NEWS NETWORK Lucknow: Till a fortnight back Rs 100 used to fetch Alka Sharma vegetables required for a week in her household. “But today, even double the expenditure is not enough,” says Alka, a housewife, whose monthly budget has gone awry due to spiralling price hike of vegetables and fruits in last few days.     Like Alka, there are many households in the city who are finding it hard to manage their monthly budget because of skyrocketing prices. A random visit to the green grocery market showed that vegetables prices have doubled in a fortnight. Shushma Srivastava, another housewife, said “I am not able to provide seasonal vegetables to my kids frequently because of higher rates, which is creating a turbulence in my monthly budget”.     The price of almost every vegetables except onion and potato has gone up to 25 to 30 per cent in the wholesale market and retail price staggering up to 45 to 50 per cent. A random market survey revealed an increase in the price of spinach to Rs 40-45 from Rs 10-15 kg a few days back.     The price of tomato has gone up to Rs 55-60 from Rs 40 a kg and capsicum to Rs 60-80 from Rs 40 per kg at the start of this month. The price of onion has gone up to Rs 20 from Rs 15-18 per kg but still remained steady in the market.     Variation between the wholesale prices and retail prices is staggering between 25%-30%.     The association said that price of veggies in Indiranagar and Gomtinagar were higher when compared with the rate of same vegetables in Nishatganj or Aliganj. The reason, said a vegetable vendor Prahlad Sonkar, was the cost of transportation.     “The bad news is that prices of green vegetables will continue to soar for another week,” said Badri Yadav, treasurer, Sabzi Mandi Dukandar Kalyan Samiti. “Even vegetable vendors are feeling the heat,” he added. Blaming inflation as the main reason behind the trend, Yadav said that vendors were compelled to compromise their profit margins to keep the prices from increasing further. “The number of consumers has dropped considerably,” reasoned a vegetable vendor in Narhi.Coming to the reasons, monsoon is a driving force behind escalating price of veggies and fruits. “Rottening of vegetables is common in the rainy months.     Decaying starts even before they are ready for the market,” shared Manzur Ali, a vegetable vendor. Humidity and sudden change of temperatures, he said, is to be blamed.     Rains also affect transportation of vegetables which adds to the cost. The extra burden is passed on to the common man.     Inflation appears to be another reason for it has caused universal soaring of commodity prices. What may wreck havoc in future is that a inflation rate is likely to increase further.     The worst part is that with the rainy seasons on in full swing and rising inflation there’s no relief on cards.
Cut off, Valley reels under shortage of bare essentials TIMES NEWS NETWORK Srinagar: The BJP-backed economic blockade in the aftermath of the Amarnath land transfer has left the Kashmir Valley high and dry, as it faces shortage of essential supplies including medicines.     Amarnath protesters had blocked the Srinagar-Jammu national highway for 12 days before Army took over its security on Sunday. The Valley is heavily dependent on the highway which links the region to the rest of the country.     As reports suggested that the Valley was facing shortage of medicines, health and medical education commissioner Atul Duloo said the government was watching the situation. ‘‘There is no shortage of drugs.’’ He said some private dealers were facing the problem and that the government would airlift supplies for them.     Medical superintendent of Srinagar’s main hospital — SMHS — Dr Waseem Qureshi said they have sufficient stocks of drugs, but there was a shortage of X-ray, CT scan films. ‘‘I called DC Jammu and asked him to send supplies under police protection.’’ Vegetable prices, too, have shot up. ‘‘The price of vegetables has increased up to 200%,’’ a wholesaler, Muhammad Rafiq Parray, said. ‘‘Trucks carrying vegetables remain stranded along the highway.’’ Another wholesaler Shabir Ahmed said there was no need to panic as the Valley is expecting bumper onion and potato crop. ‘‘This year’s produce has been tremendous and we would be in a position to import as well.’’     Chief secretary S S Kapur allayed concerns saying the government would ensure hasslefree movement of trucks carrying supplies to the Valley. ‘‘Army has secured the highway and the situation is under control,’’ Kapur said. Cong MPs seek governor’s recall: Congress MPs from J&K on Monday demanded recall of governor N N Vohra in the wake of violence in the state over the Amarnath land controversy and requested Prime Minister Manmohan Singh to appoint a political person in his place. The duo — Madan Lal Sharma (Jammu) and Chaudhary Lal Singh (Udhampur) — met the Prime Minister and suggested that the management committee of Amarnath Shrine Board be reconstituted and the governor not be made its chairman.
Prime time lay-offs add to Congress’s cup of woes Rajeev Deshpande | TNN New Delhi: For a government that was nervous about tom-tomming growth figures even when they looked to touch double digits — worried that it might meet NDA’s India Shining fate — the financial crisis and the first televised job cuts are an ironic twist as Congress and its allies gird up for polls.     Till the last quarter of 2007, the India story created a peculiar dilemma for Congress leaders. While tempted to claim credit for the global accolades pouring in, they were held back by the fear that those in the rain shadow of reforms might unleash a backlash against the ruling coalition, so convinced Congress bosses were that a rural insurrection had sunk NDA.     This had led to finance minister P Chidambaram to deprecatingly observe that he was part of a “modest government” even as Opposition BJP claimed that UPA was really benefiting from NDA’s reform initiatives. Then, inflation began to creep up and “price rise” became a sufficiently potent issue to begin hurting Congress in state elections.     Though the government has persuasively argued that India is poised to weather the fiscal storms flattening bourses and hammering economies across the world a lot better than other nations, the sense of unease in Congress circles is unmistakable. The sight of young airline staff demanding their jobs back has tugged at the public’s heart strings and spurred wider uncertainty, concede Congress leaders.     The refrain that the lay offs were all the more insensitive as they came two weeks ahead of Diwali is echoed by ministers and party general secretaries. They seem to reflect a recognition that this is not the best augury ahead of next month’s state elections. “If the job cuts are contained to just the airline industry, it would be ok. If more sectors are affected, it could become a political issue,” said a senior minister.     It was not easy to explain that with India’s economy increasingly aligned to the processes of globalization, rough landings were part of the game. “It was the same with price rise. It was linked to high oil and commodity prices. There was only so much the government could do. But we still ended up paying the price for it,” said a CWC member. Just as BJP did in the infamous onion elections of 1998.     The FM wasn’t merely engaging in semantics when he said that going by IMF’s estimate, the Indian economy would grow at 7.9% this fiscal and that was nothing to sneer at. But the trouble was that from the “perception” that growth was losing some momentum, the reality was beginning to bite. It meant a shaky sort of feeling, a growing worry that while EMIs on housing loans were still high, real estate investments were losing value.     With Congress sources accepting that price rise had been a factor in assembly elections in Punjab, Uttarakhand, Karnataka as also municipal polls in Delhi and Mumbai, some voices want the government to intervene in the Jet sackings. There is an inherent populism embedded in the political class and it is not very mindful of rules of trade and competition. “The government must do something for these kids,” argued a Congress general secretary.     Ministers point out that the stability of the stock market, under close scrutiny every day, was conjoined to how other bourses were doing. A bad day for the Dow and Asian markets could not leave the sensex unscathed. The success of interventions in terms of easing credit norms and CRR requirements and opening windows for stressed mutual funds all depended to some extent on how the massive bailouts in UK, US and Europe were working out.     For almost a year, the Manmohan Singh government has been working to squeeze money out of the system to control demand. In its last six months in office, it finds itself trying to inject liquidity. It could be a double whammy.
Vegetable prices already up 20% TIMES NEWS NETWORK New Delhi: With as many as 60 lakh trucks staying off the roads across the country on Monday, prices of vegetables and fruits showed an increase of 15%- 20%. ‘‘Prices of vegetables coming from Himachal Pradesh and Punjab haven’t gone up. But vegetables like beans, onions, potatoes and cucumber have seen an increase in price of up to 50%,’’ a vegetable wholesaler said.     An official of the Fruit Wholesaler Association in Chandigarh said prices of guava, keenu and banana have risen by 20%. However, it was business as usual at Attari along the India-Pakistan border.     Customs commissioner Talkeshwar Singh told TOI that around 92 truckloads of goods crossed over to Pakistan while 11 trucks entered India.The first day of the nationwide strike was marked by deserted highways, with trucks lined up and drivers sitting idle on roads in Rajasthan.     Members of the Jaipur Transport Operators Association tried to ensure there was no loading or unloading operation, though some trucks could be seen. Truckers have, however, kept petrol, diesel, LPG and milk out of the strike for the first 48 hours.     Nearly 90% of trucks stayed off the roads in Kolkata. ‘‘We have allowed two more days for local movement of trucks. Some of them have already moved in the wholesale markets.     For the moment, we have made an exception for movement of medicines, milk and vegetables. There was, however, no movement to or from ports at Kolkata and Haldia,’’said K K Bansal, chairman of All India Motor Transport Congress Coordination Committee (East Zone).     Uttar Pradesh took steps to ensure supply of food and other essentials, with 50,000 trucks going off the roads. In Ahmedabad, Akhil Gujarat Truck Transport Association secretary Mukesh Dave complained, ‘‘There has been no hearing of our demands.’’     The strike had little impact in Hyderabad, though oil tankers were not allowed to enter between 8.30am and 3pm. Later, an oil company official said, ‘‘We called the police when agitating truckers tried to stop our vehicles. We told them that petrol, diesel and kerosene are essential commodities.’’ Govt threatens to invoke Esma     Calling the truckers’ indefinite strike unreasonable and unjustified, the government warned of Invoking the Essential Services Maintenance Act (Esma) and cancelling permits of those who continue with the strike. TNN
Panic buying as 60L trucks stay off roads TIMES NEWS NETWORK New Delhi: With as many as 60 lakh trucks staying off the roads across the country on Monday, according to the All-India Motor Transport Congress, traders and commoners pressed the panic button, fearing a food shortage in the offing.     With rates of locally supplied vegetables and fruits showing an increase of 15%- 20%, panic buying began in Punjab’s Chandigarh, Mohali and Panchkula.     Heavy rush could be seen in shops selling onions, the prices of which have shot up by 20% already. Since onion is largely supplied from Nashik, traders expect rates to go up further if the strike continues.     Many vegetable and fruit traders have cancelled orders from Maharashtra, Delhi and Gujarat. Truckers’ strike to push up commodity prices Lucknow: Over 500 trucks stood still at the main wholesale markets, cold storages and highways in and around the capital on Monday following a total strike by truckers across the country. Though, Monday being the first day of the strike, did not leave any major impact on the supplies of essential commodities, the wholesalers warned that the impact would be visible from Tuesday onwards.     President of Lucknow Truck and Transporters’ Association (LTTA) Swarn Singh said that the truckers were prepared to carry the agitation to a logical conclusion even if it meant keeping the goods carriers off the road for weeks or even months at a stretch. “The strike is total and we, at our end, are providing some relief to the regular loaders and labourers working with us in the form of providing them food and likes as they have been rendered jobless because of the strike,” Swarn Singh said.     The eight point charter of demands of the truckers includes reducing the price of diesel, fee for national permit and reduction of excise duty on truck tyres. The truckers’ associations have claimed that the price of diesel had not been reviewed despite a fall in prices of fuel in the international market.     Meanwhile, fear of food grain shortage in the wake of nationwide transporters’ strike began to grip the city on Monday with the retailers lifting five to seven per cent more merchandise from the wholesale market. This has given rise to the speculation of the prices being jacked up by the retailers in the days to come.     According to wholesalers, the daily consumption of food grains, especially rice and pulses (dal), in the capital is around 2,500 quintal. This went up by around five per cent as retailers started buying more out of the fear of a prolonged strike.     President, Lucknow Dal and Rice Miller Association, Bharat Bhushan Gupta, said that as of now there was no increase in the prices. “However, the prices might increase starting Tuesday as market speculation goes up,” Gupta said. The crisis would, in fact, grip the state, if the strike continues for another three days.     The market was reeling under a crisis because of recession as demand had dipped. “The retailers, who were until now, not buying too much stock in advance might order a larger quantity,” he said.     Pulses are largely imported to UP from Maharashtra and Madhya Pradesh. But with the transporters going on a strike the regular supply would be stopped, hence giving retailers and wholesalers a convenient excuse to jack up the prices.     On the retail market, no visible impact of truckers’ strike was seen with regards to supply and prices of fruits and vegetables in the city on Monday. However, office bearers of UP Fruits and Vegetable Sellers’ Association cautioned that the impact was sure to get more than noticeable within the next 48 hours starting Monday evening. “The prices of vegetables and fruits would escalate and the strike would start hurting the common man thereafter,” claimed president, Satish Sonkar. The reason, he said, was the limited stock of vegetables with the wholesalers who couldnot hoard these items due to their perishability. He said that seasonal vegetables, especially peas, cauliflower, tomatoes, capsicum might witness a two to three-fold increase in case the strike continued beyond four days. Wholesale prices of pulses as on date (in Rs per quintal) Matar Dal | 1,975 Chana | 2,650 Arhar | 4,400 Urad (Assam) | 2,600 Urad (Jhansi) | 3,000 Kali Urad | 2,750 Rajma | 3,300 Chhola | 4,600
Vegetable prices already up 20% TIMES NEWS NETWORK New Delhi: With as many as 60 lakh trucks staying off the roads across the country on Monday, prices of vegetables and fruits showed an increase of 15%- 20%. ‘‘Prices of vegetables coming from Himachal Pradesh and Punjab haven’t gone up. But vegetables like beans, onions, potatoes and cucumber have seen an increase in price of up to 50%,’’ a vegetable wholesaler said.     An official of the Fruit Wholesaler Association in Chandigarh said prices of guava, keenu and banana have risen by 20%. However, it was business as usual at Attari along the India-Pakistan border.     Customs commissioner Talkeshwar Singh told TOI that around 92 truckloads of goods crossed over to Pakistan while 11 trucks entered India.The first day of the nationwide strike was marked by deserted highways, with trucks lined up and drivers sitting idle on roads in Rajasthan.     Members of the Jaipur Transport Operators Association tried to ensure there was no loading or unloading operation, though some trucks could be seen. Truckers have, however, kept petrol, diesel, LPG and milk out of the strike for the first 48 hours.     Nearly 90% of trucks stayed off the roads in Kolkata. ‘‘We have allowed two more days for local movement of trucks. Some of them have already moved in the wholesale markets.     For the moment, we have made an exception for movement of medicines, milk and vegetables. There was, however, no movement to or from ports at Kolkata and Haldia,’’said K K Bansal, chairman of All India Motor Transport Congress Coordination Committee (East Zone).     Uttar Pradesh took steps to ensure supply of food and other essentials, with 50,000 trucks going off the roads. In Ahmedabad, Akhil Gujarat Truck Transport Association secretary Mukesh Dave complained, ‘‘There has been no hearing of our demands.’’     The strike had little impact in Hyderabad, though oil tankers were not allowed to enter between 8.30am and 3pm. Later, an oil company official said, ‘‘We called the police when agitating truckers tried to stop our vehicles. We told them that petrol, diesel and kerosene are essential commodities.’’ Govt threatens to invoke Esma     Calling the truckers’ indefinite strike unreasonable and unjustified, the government warned of Invoking the Essential Services Maintenance Act (Esma) and cancelling permits of those who continue with the strike. TNN
Panic buying as 60L trucks stay off roads TIMES NEWS NETWORK New Delhi: With as many as 60 lakh trucks staying off the roads across the country on Monday, according to the All-India Motor Transport Congress, traders and commoners pressed the panic button, fearing a food shortage in the offing.     With rates of locally supplied vegetables and fruits showing an increase of 15%- 20%, panic buying began in Punjab’s Chandigarh, Mohali and Panchkula.     Heavy rush could be seen in shops selling onions, the prices of which have shot up by 20% already. Since onion is largely supplied from Nashik, traders expect rates to go up further if the strike continues.     Many vegetable and fruit traders have cancelled orders from Maharashtra, Delhi and Gujarat. Truckers’ strike to push up commodity prices Lucknow: Over 500 trucks stood still at the main wholesale markets, cold storages and highways in and around the capital on Monday following a total strike by truckers across the country. Though, Monday being the first day of the strike, did not leave any major impact on the supplies of essential commodities, the wholesalers warned that the impact would be visible from Tuesday onwards.     President of Lucknow Truck and Transporters’ Association (LTTA) Swarn Singh said that the truckers were prepared to carry the agitation to a logical conclusion even if it meant keeping the goods carriers off the road for weeks or even months at a stretch. “The strike is total and we, at our end, are providing some relief to the regular loaders and labourers working with us in the form of providing them food and likes as they have been rendered jobless because of the strike,” Swarn Singh said.     The eight point charter of demands of the truckers includes reducing the price of diesel, fee for national permit and reduction of excise duty on truck tyres. The truckers’ associations have claimed that the price of diesel had not been reviewed despite a fall in prices of fuel in the international market.     Meanwhile, fear of food grain shortage in the wake of nationwide transporters’ strike began to grip the city on Monday with the retailers lifting five to seven per cent more merchandise from the wholesale market. This has given rise to the speculation of the prices being jacked up by the retailers in the days to come.     According to wholesalers, the daily consumption of food grains, especially rice and pulses (dal), in the capital is around 2,500 quintal. This went up by around five per cent as retailers started buying more out of the fear of a prolonged strike.     President, Lucknow Dal and Rice Miller Association, Bharat Bhushan Gupta, said that as of now there was no increase in the prices. “However, the prices might increase starting Tuesday as market speculation goes up,” Gupta said. The crisis would, in fact, grip the state, if the strike continues for another three days.     The market was reeling under a crisis because of recession as demand had dipped. “The retailers, who were until now, not buying too much stock in advance might order a larger quantity,” he said.     Pulses are largely imported to UP from Maharashtra and Madhya Pradesh. But with the transporters going on a strike the regular supply would be stopped, hence giving retailers and wholesalers a convenient excuse to jack up the prices.     On the retail market, no visible impact of truckers’ strike was seen with regards to supply and prices of fruits and vegetables in the city on Monday. However, office bearers of UP Fruits and Vegetable Sellers’ Association cautioned that the impact was sure to get more than noticeable within the next 48 hours starting Monday evening. “The prices of vegetables and fruits would escalate and the strike would start hurting the common man thereafter,” claimed president, Satish Sonkar. The reason, he said, was the limited stock of vegetables with the wholesalers who couldnot hoard these items due to their perishability. He said that seasonal vegetables, especially peas, cauliflower, tomatoes, capsicum might witness a two to three-fold increase in case the strike continued beyond four days. Wholesale prices of pulses as on date (in Rs per quintal) Matar Dal | 1,975 Chana | 2,650 Arhar | 4,400 Urad (Assam) | 2,600 Urad (Jhansi) | 3,000 Kali Urad | 2,750 Rajma | 3,300 Chhola | 4,600
Caste, good governance trump prices for voters TIMES NEWS NETWORK New Delhi: Price rise is not the game-changer in elections as it has been trotted out to be. While there have been elections in the past that have been won or lost on inflation — Delhi in 1998 being a good example when the skyrocketing price of onions brought tears to the eyes of then ruling BJP — a TOI study based on inputs from at least 10 centres reveals that escalating prices are no longer influencing voter choices.     Instead, their vote goes on a host of other issues with caste and community considerations taking precedence over prices. Even in predominantly middle class societies as in Delhi and other metropolises, people would rather vote for good governance than escalating prices.     Voters in rural areas, on the other hand, are more influenced by caste and community considerations. It’s very unlikely, for example, a diehard Reddy who supports YSR-led Congress government in Andhra Pradesh, to use his vote against the ruling party there merely because of price rise. This would hold true even if he would fall in the category of poor.     In Mumbai, for instance, which recorded 44% voting, price rise was a non-issue. As an office assistant in south Mumbai says, ‘‘Pulses are selling for Rs 72 per kg. We are having dal at the price of mutton! But, if bringing another party to power was the answer, I would change my vote.’’ He wasn’t enthused about voting and didn’t.     Ganesh Ramkrishna Lonkar, the father of Tanvi who played Latika in ‘Slumdog Millionaire’, says, ‘‘Price rise and corruption pale into insignificance during a grand event like the general elections. People feel that recession etc., are temporary problems that could occur irrespective of the party in power. Regionalism plays a far greater role than any other issue.’’     In Bangalore, the majority was of the opinion that price rise did not influence their vote. Says Santosh, an auto driver, ‘‘It didn’t weigh on my mind when I voted.’’ He did not forget to emphasise that he had no politics of his own. ‘‘I alone can’t bring change,’’ he said.     Ajith Gopinath, a lawyer, did not vote. ‘‘I decided against voting as I think it’s useless. All the parties out there are fooling us. The government has failed to check the spiralling prices.’’ Averil, an upper class housewife, says, ‘‘I live within a budget. If things are expensive, I won’t buy. It’s difficult to blame anybody. But I won’t change my vote just because of this,’’ she says.     ‘‘Mehenga daal, mehengi cheeni, mehenga hua khan paan; Congress bhagao, BJP lao, jeena toh ho asaan,’’ is the SMS spamming mobile phones in Himachal, indicating BJP wants to make spiralling prices an issue. But, as former economic advisor to the state government Ashok Rajan says, ‘‘Prices have a greater impact on the salaried classes.’’ And this class, as we know, has little bearing on election results.     Richa Sood, a working woman in Shimla, feels there’s more to voting than just prices. ‘‘Rising prices are a matter of concern, but when it comes to the future of the country then there’s more at stake than just the cost of living, which has been going up. Between rising prices and good governance, I would vote for good governance,’’ she says.     Even in Rajasthan, when it comes to issues affecting voter choice, price rise features with a majority of the people, but isn’t the decisive factor. While urban areas report concern about price rise, rural regions don’t care a jot and vote according to local considerations of caste, etc.     In Patna, voters don’t appear unduly bothered by skyrocketing prices. ‘‘It’s surprising. The hike in prices of basic items should affect the lower income group. But it doesn’t. It’s only the urban middle class which talks about price rise,’’ said Rakesh Kumar a college teacher in Patna.
Enter Onions, exit Harmison London: Pace bowler Graham Onions won selection ahead of Durham team mate Steve Harmison in the England squad named on Sunday for the first Ashes Test against Australia starting in Cardiff next week.     Ian Bell has also been added to the England XI who played Warwickshire last week while left-arm spinner Monty Panesar wins selection for the match starting on Wednesday ahead of Yorkshire leg-spinner Adil Rashid.     Harmison displayed genuine pace and disconcerting bounce for the England Lions against Australia in the drawn match that finished on Saturday, dismissing exciting new opener Phillip Hughes cheaply in both innings and taking six wickets overall.     However, he paid the price for his frustrating inconsistency in test cricket while Onions has reaped the reward of a fine first series against West Indies this year, including five for 38 figures on debut.     Squad: Andrew Strauss (capt), Alastair Cook, Ravi Bopara, Kevin Pietersen, Paul Collingwood, Matt Prior (wkt), Andrew Flintoff, Stuart Broad, Graeme Swann, James Anderson, Monty Panesar, Ian Bell, Graham Onions. Ian Chappell: Hosts have edge over ‘ridiculous’ Oz New Delhi: Australia have put together a ‘‘ridiculous’’ squad which gives England a distinct edge in the forthcoming Ashes series, according to former Aussie captain Ian Chappell. ‘‘I thought it was ridiculous,’’ Chappell said of Australia’s team selection, pointing to Phillip Hughes’ shaky form.     ‘‘Certainly not going with a third opening batsman is just asking for trouble. There seems to be this widespread feeling that Hughes is fine, he’s going to be a star. Well, he’s only played three Tests. He’s got a very unorthodox technique that could come unglued at any time. If it happens to be a wet summer in England he could be in a bit of trouble,’’ Chappell told a website. PTI
VEGETARIANS’ PLIGHT Soaring prices of veggies leave a sour taste Lucknow: Usha who works as a domestic help in Nishatganj along with her husband, a washerman, earns around Rs 1,000 per month. Few months ago, the amount was enough to buy rice, pulses and vegetables for the couple and their three children. But, not any more. “Spending on the food items eats up nearly two-third of the family income. The prices are too high for our meagre budget,” Usha lamented.     Usha, like millions of families in India, is struggling hard to cope with the price rise in basic foods. Though the inflation rate has declined, there is no respite for customers, who are still waiting for the food commodities to get cheaper. “The monthly shopping of household items has become a headache, as high price puts extra burden on our pockets,” said Rita Singh, a housewife. Madhu Srivastav agreed with Rita and said she has excluded items like snacks and dry fruits from the grocery list to control her monthly budget.     The prices of food items have skyrocketed even more within a month. Dal-roti, the basic food of poor, has gone beyond the reach of many, with tur dal becoming the diet of the rich. The price of tur dal has increased from Rs 60 per kg to Rs 85 per kg. The prices of other pulses too have risen. Chana dal and urad dal recorded an increase of seven to eight percent and cost Rs 38 per kg and Rs 54 per kg respectively in the wholesale market. Rice, too, has recorded an increase of about 13 per cent and is being sold at Rs 25 per kg.     The prices of vegetables have also soared with the rates of the essential items like potatoes and onions shooting up by 50 per cent. Potato, which was sold at Rs 10 per kg a month before, is now selling at Rs 15 per kg. Tomato and other green vegetables cost have also shot up by more than 60 per cent. “The delayed monsoon played a vital role in the price rise due to a sharp decline in the produce of local vegetables,” said Nandram, a vegetable vendor. “We cannot afford to have two vegetables per meal due to the exorbitant price,” said Deepti Sharma, an employee in a private company.     The price rise of essential food items is also attributed to the rise in the fuel prices. Owner of a general store in Gomtinagar, Rajendra Kumar Sahu said the price hike in petrol and diesel by Rs 4 and Rs 2 per litre in the month of June, triggered the freightrate hike by transporters thus making the food items costlier. “Shopkeepers are also facing the brunt of price rise as the sales have declined by 50 per cent. The sale of tur dal has declined by more than 80 per cent,” Rajendra added. TNN
Hoarding resulting in rise in prices TIMES NEWS NETWORK Lucknow: Is the recent price hike just a result of poor monsoon, or is there something more to it? The question is now doing the rounds as the amount of decline in the quantity of pulses in the state capital does not match with the corresponding hike in the prices, giving rise to speculations that hoarding has raised its ugly face yet again in the state capital.     Take for example the case of Arhar dal. The percentage decrease in the amount of the dal reaching the city from other states like Maharashtra and Madhya Pradesh is around 25% as compared to the prices around six months back. However, the prices of the same dal have touched the roof: the prices have risen by almost 80%. While Arhar cost Rs 48 per kg in the retail market in January, it now costs Rs 81 per kg.     Market analysts said that it is because of the unprecedented hike that consumption levels have gone down by at least 30 per cent within an area of 100 km around the periphery of Lucknow. The consumption of Arhar stood in the range of about 18,000 quintal per month six months back. This has now dropped to 12,000 quintal per month, claimed president of Lucknow Galla Market Association, Bharat Bhushan Gupta.     And the situation is unlikely to improve till November when the dal would be produced in some of the districts in western UP including Aligarh and Amroha. ‘‘That would meet close to 25% of the need,’’ Gupta said. He, however, said that there has been a spurt in the prices of dal in the wholesale market as well.     A similar situation has also come to haunt the vegetable market in the state capital. Here, too, prices of essential vegetables like potato and tomato have increased three times. Price rise was also seen in onion which stood close to Rs 12 per kg a couple of days back. It only plunged to Rs 9 per kg on Friday.     The question now arises that despite the demand taking a plunge why there stands a mismatch between the decline in supply percentage and the rising prices. Market watchers claim that the main beneficiaries are the retailers who often jack up the prices claiming of the shortage. ‘‘Though it is a fact, but there is still a substantial margin,’’ admitted a retailer. ‘‘We often go by what the market situation is. That has a local bearing as well,’’ said a retailer who did not want to be identified. So, a cartel of retailers starts operating in the time of crisis, bringing the hoarding into picture.
J U G U L A R V E I N Rascala vs raskail Jug Suraiya     Mind it! If Quick Gun Murugun comes can Bang-Bang Bongopadhya be far behind? The huge success of QGM – the rasum roughrider and udipi uberhero – has inspired the creation of B-BB, the Kolkata Kowboy and the fastest shooter from the quip in the Ooild Ooest of Bengal. If Quick Gun has yenna yacksent (accent) – spelt yaysee-see-yee-yen-tee – and his rascalas, Bong-Bong has his own Bangla eeshtyle of speech, in which ‘v’ becomes ‘bhi’, ‘w’ becomes ‘oo’, as in Ooild Ooest (Wild West), and rascals become raskails. And if QGM has his sidekicks Mango Dolly and Locket Girl, B-BB has for henchmen the redoubtable Double-Half and the indigestible Moghlai Porotha. Two such stalwarts as QGM and B-BB can’t coexist in the same tinsel town. The time has come for yenna showdown. (Translations have been provided in brackets, where necessary):     QGM: Rascala, first I yam (am) finishing sambhar, then i yam (am) finishing you. Mind it!     B-BB: Ooiee ooeel (We will) see who finishes who, raskail! Knowing you that i am fastest oddabaaj (addabaaz) in all of Ooest (West) Bengal?     QGM: What is yenna oddabaaj? Is it new type of yonion (onion) uttapam i yam (am) not hearing of before?     B-BB: Nebher minding your uttopums and other Medrassi (Madrasi) foodings! An oddabaaj is ooan (one) who is ordering and finishing dobble-half (double-half) in dobble kweek (double quick) time.     QGM: Double-half? I yam not knowing yat (at) all what dobble this is you are halfing. Is it yay (a) double order of yay (a) masala dosa?     B-BB: Sorbonash! (Untranslatable Bang-Bangese, the closest approximation being ‘Damnation’!). Can you not get khabar jheenees (food items) out of your maathar mundu (head)? Dobble-Half, bring ooan (one) dobble-half and show this Medrassi what a dobble-half eej (is). Double-half runs off and brings back a double-half: a cup of tea, half of which has been poured into a saucer so that two oddabaajs (addabaazs) can share the tea, one drinking out of the cup, and the other out of the saucer, thereby halving the price of the odda (adda). B-BB: You are seeing? Thees (this) eej (is) dobble-half (double-half). Thees eej essence of oddabaaji (addabaazi). Pheesh and phootball! (Fish and football.) Lal salaam! (Red salute). Cholbe nah! (It won’t do). Netaji leebhs! (Netaji lives). QGM: Netaji? Yenna film-maker from Tollywood? B-BB: Arr saala pachhi nah! (untranslatable phrase, roughly: I can’t take this any more). Netaji eej (is) Netaji! You are theenking (thinking) of Manekda, no doubt known to ooide ooarld (wide world) as Sotyojeet Rai, maker of many-many famous bois (pronounced boees, B-BBese for films).     QGM: Never i yam (am) hearing or seeing yany (any) such filliyums (films). Seeing only Rajnikanth and old-old MGR filliyums (films). Who is this Sotyojeet Rai fellow?     B-BB: Ki aaschorjo! (How astounding). Not hearing of maker of Pather Paanchali and Charulata? What kind of baggar phellow (bugger fellow) are you? What a nonsense! I ooil (will) educate you in Bangla kaalchar (culture) by seengeeng (singing) Robindro songeet compojed (composed) by Thakurda (Tagore). Oy, Moghlai Porotha – play harmonium!     Moghlai Porotha plays the harmonium and B-BB begins to sing.     B-BB: Ayee Aagonair poroshmoni chhoo-ao pranay! A jibon purno korro, a jibon purno korro…!     QGM: Ai-yai-yo! Yenna yowling i have never heard before! Mind it? I yam (am) yout (out) of my mind!     B-BB: A small ooictory (victory) for Bang-Bang; a giant ooictory (victory) for Banglakind!
Get a spiritual high on high seas Himanshi Dhawan | TNN New Delhi: Who says the path to nirvana has to be paved with abstinence and detachment? Certainly not the organizers of Indian spiritual cruises, which offer pravachan (religious discourse), vegetarian food and meditation in the midst of opulence and the occasional vice.     Spiritual leaders like Mridul Maharaj and Baba Ramdev, followed by a throng of devotees, are opting to cruise to overseas destinations like southeast Asia and Europe. They typically board large cruise liners, which have other passengers as well, for a spiritual high on the high seas.     So, in these liners, a Lido theatre that may be entertaining a noisy crowd with its topless shows at night, is transformed into a samadhan meeting with chants reverberating in the wee hours of the morning.     Hyderabad-based software company promoter Govind Kabra, who has been organizing tours of spiritual leaders for the past three years through a non-profit Dharmik Yatra Trust, said the popularity of such group tours was increasing. ‘‘Till a few years ago, there were about 1,000-1,500 people taking such cruises each year. Now, the number has gone up to 15,000 or more,’’ he said.     About 80% of the participants are people living in India while the rest are NRIs from places like England, US, Italy, Belgium, Indonesia and Malaysia, he added.     Kabra said such groups had special requirements. These included supper at midnight when kathas were on, ‘‘masala tea which Indians seem to prefer’’ and a vast range of vegetarian food that has no onion, ginger or garlic. Yoga cruises cost $150-200 per night New Delhi: Spiritual leaders like Mridul Maharaj and Baba Ramdev are opting to cruise to overseas destinations like southeast Asia and Europe. Hyderabad-based Govind Kabra, who has been organizing tours for spiritual leaders, says that: ‘‘We offer a choice of about 70-80 dishes that are turned out at every meal. Kathas are restricted to 3-4 hours a day so that people spend the rest of the time sightseeing or exploring the ship.’’     The trips, usually organized in ‘‘non-marriage season’’ from July-August and in January after Sankranti, are immensely popular. Industry experts feel that these cruises, priced at about $150-200 a night, fill a gap that the travel industry had earlier ignored. Royal Caribbean’s Gautam Chadha said, ‘‘The trend is gathering momentum. Spiritual cruises were popular amongst NRIs but now Indians are also following suit.’’     MSC Cruises — popular in the European circuit — said that a slash in prices had encouraged religious groups to opt for cruises.
J U G U L A R V E I N Sweep of history Jug Suraiya     Economists keep telling us that we are currently in a phase of negative inflation. Which in economese (the language that only economists speak, and only economists understand) means that prices of things are coming down. This proves that economists don’t eat daal, the price of which – far from coming down – has shot up like one of those space rockets ISRO keeps launching, and is now Rs 90-plus a kg (daal that is, not ISRO rockets). This also proves that economists don’t eat onions, which are Rs 20 a kg. Moreover – and most significantly – this proves that economists don’t use a jhaaru, that indispensable item of daily use in every Indian household.     The other day, Bunny informed me that Sudha, our domestic help, had indented for a new jhaaru, the old one having given up the ghost, after yeoman service sweeping up the doggy hairs that Brindle deposits on the carpets and furniture every day. OK, i said, fishing out a crumpled tenner from the dusty recesses of my wallet. This won’t do, said Bunny. Sudha says a jhaaru now costs 38 rupees. Thirty-eight bucks? For a lowly jhaaru? Does Sudha think jhaarus grow on trees? i demanded. Which, come to think of it, they probably do. I’d never thought of where jhaarus come from, but with their feathery, frond-like appearance they probably do come from trees. Maybe Sudha – enterprising soul – was proposing to invest in a whole jhaaru tree, or even an entire plantation of jhaaru trees, and was planning to use my 38 rupees as venture capital for the project.     But it turned out that i was mistaken. It seemed that Sudha was not in fact thinking of cornering the jhaaru market, becoming the Mukesh Ambani of the jhaaru trade, so to speak, and having Anil take out snide public interest ads about monopolists and cartels and whathave-yous, or rather what-have-younots, the monopolist having glommed all available supplies of the commodity in question. Which in this case was jhaarus. A single one of which, i discovered, now cost 38 smackers. So much – or should that be so little? – for negative inflation. And for non-jhaaruwielding economists.     The jhaaru – India’s low-cost (till now), eco-friendly answer to the western world’s vacuum cleaner – is much more than a humble instrument of domestic sanitary engineering. It is an emblem and a daily memento of the cyclical sweep of our ancient history, and of our even more ancient mythology that lies beyond the horizon of time. Did Sita do jhaaru when she and Ram and Lakshman were in vanvaas? Of course she did, must have. Forests are full of dust, and like any proud homemaker – or vanmaker, which would be more accurate in her case – Sita must have wielded a jhaaru along with the best of them, keeping their patch of forest spick and span for Ram to come home to of an evening after a hard day of doing whatever it is that exiled god-kings do in the wilderness. In fact, so assiduous was Sita in her jhaaruing that she overstepped the protective line that brother-in-law Lakshman had drawn for her and got herself abducted by Ravana, but that’s another story.     Ever since Sita, Indian households – and forestholds – have witnessed the daily ritual of not the removal but the reallocation of dust with the use of the jhaaru: every day the ancient, abiding dust – the same patient dust swept through the ages by Sita, and the Maurya dynasty, and the Mughals, and the British, and now us – is swept out through the door and relocated outside, from where the wind will blow it back in again, in an endless circle of ebb and flow. Thirtyeight bucks? A small price to pay for an eternal tidal flow of which, part and parcel, is that half a handful of dust called me. Bring on the jhaaru. And inflation be damned. Together with the economists.
DELHI AMONG TOP 50 PLACES TO SEE Fatehpur Sikri Is The Only Other Indian Destination To Make It To Nat Geo’s List Himanshi Dhawan | TNN New Delhi: Delhi, a city people love to hate for its traffic, lack of civic services, civility and now its inability to appear trussed and ready for the Commonwealth Games, has found a place of honour in the National Geographic Traveler magazine’s ‘50 Places of a Lifetime.’     The Capital and Fatehpur Sikri are the only two Indian destinations to make it to the prestigious list that is part of the travel magazine’s compilation that comes after a decade-long gap. In fact, the first list published in 1999 featured the Taj Mahal and put Kerala on the international map after it was described as ‘Paradise Found’.     Interestingly, the piece on Delhi has been written by minister of state for external affairs Shashi Tharoor who describes the city as a “symbol of a country on the move, the urban flagship of a better tomorrow”. Calling it the “fast-forward capital”, Tharoor writes, “New Delhi is India’s contemporary equivalent — kinetic, heterodox, anti-ritual, prosperous. For all its inadequacies, it is a symbol of a country on the move, the urban flagship of a better tomorrow. It is leading India into the 21st century, even at the price of forgetting all that happened in the other 20.”     He adds, “Today’s New Delhi — not the musty bureaucratic edifices of government, but the throbbing thriving agglomeration of factories and TV studios, industrial fairgrounds and software consultancies, night clubs and restaurants — is a city that reflects the vigour and vitality of those who have made it. It is far and away India’s richest city.”     Just as historians feared that the elegance of Fatehpur Sikri would forever live under the shadow of the Taj, the monument has found its place as a World Wonder on the Traveler list. Author of ‘Branding India, An Incredible Story’ and former joint secretary with the tourism ministry Amitabh Kant says of the monument, “In this glowing sandstone city, elegant lattices, umbrella style pavilions, and Hindu imagery meet elegant onion domes and Islamic arches. The great archway leading to the Friday mosque reflects this religious diversity, its surface inscribed with a saying attributed to Christ... Attracting throngs of visitors each year, its latticed walls have grown heavy with the red threads of their wishes as they weave their own stories into history.”     Elaborating on the 50 hot picks as destinations with “character”, the magazine’s editor-in-chief Keith Bellows says, “Ten years ago, we could see the merging signs of a new kind of journeying — one that puts a premium on sense of place, authenticity, culture, sustainability and experience rather than mere sightseeing.”     The 25th anniversary special October issue also includes cities like Berlin, St Petersburg and Mexico City while shortlisting Aleutian Islands in Alaska in its section on wild places and the Hawaiian island of Molokai as paradise found.
POSITIVE SIDE OF DROUGHT Vegetable production increases TIMES NEWS NETWORK Varanasi: The ‘positive’ impact of drought will also be visible in the market of green vegetables as well as pulses in the coming months. Though in comparison to other food grains, potato and onions, the price of green vegetable did not shoot up surprisingly in past months. The mission incharge of department of horticulture and fruit processing, Jyoti Kumar Singh said that the green vegetable cultivation had taken place in 9,506 hectare and the production was recorded as 1,53,404 metric ton.     For this season, he said, target for vegetable cultivation had increased. As per the target set by department, the green vegetable cultivation would take place in 10,391 hectare which could result in the production of 1,69,820 metric ton of green vegetables. The area of cultivation and vegetable production could be enhanced if more farmers diverted towards vegetable cultivation to compensate their losses caused by the drought. Singh said that cowpea (lobia) could dominate other vegetables while high production pea, Arhar, gram and other pulses would also bring relief for the buyers.
It’s official: Food prices biting buyers 13.4% Rise, Admits New Data TIMES NEWS NETWORK New Delhi: Even as the overall inflation rate remains at around 1.5%, prices of food articles have gone up 13.4% in the last one year. That statistic, officially released on Thursday is bad news for the aam admi, but details of specific commodities like potatoes, onions and pulses show that is even worse.     As decided earlier, the government discontinued the release of weekly data on price rise of all commodities. Instead, it released data on select commodities.     According to the latest data, prices of potatoes have doubled over the last 12 months, onions are 50% more expensive and the prices of pulses have gone up by over 23% on average. It’s another matter that the price of some specific pulses like arhar and moong have risen to all-time highs of around Rs 90 per kg.     The bad news doesn’t end there. Food and agriculture minister Sharad Pawar has already said it is unlikely that prices would ease in the next three months. He anticipates that the situation will change for the better only when the rabi crops are harvested early next summer.     Contributing to the spike in food prices has been a weak monsoon this year, which is expected to lead to foodgrain production falling by around 21 million tonnes in the current kharif season compared to kharif 2008. Rice production is estimated to fall by over 15 million tonnes and the output of coarse cereals by 5.5 million tonnes.     As usual, the price rise in the food articles has affected the middle and lower-middle class adversely. Senior economist with HDFC Bank D K Joshi said the fall in agricultural production is one of the main reasons for the price rise.     But, he added that the situation has worsened because some traders are exploiting the shortage. ‘Release more foodgrains to check prices’ A senior economist in the government department said that the government should release more foodgrains in the market to control the price rise. He pointed out that there are enough reserves with the government, which could have been used to control the prices. The government is learnt to be of the opinion that vulnerable sections of the population below the poverty line are protected as they are supplied with 25 kg of rice at Rs 3 per kg and in some states at Rs 2 per kg. TNN
Price Of Onions Food inflation requires more than short-term palliatives     Despite overall inflation at a non-threatening 1.5 per cent, food prices have risen 13.4 per cent in the past one year. If a dry statistic has no power to pinch, the same can’t be said of actual prices of potatoes, onions and pulses. These have zoomed north, with prices of onions and potatoes spiking by 50-100 per cent, and pulses by over 23 per cent on average. Worse, it seems there’ll be no immediate let-up. The agriculture minister admits prices could remain high till the rabi crop’s harvesting. End-2009 is the Planning Commission’s more hopeful timeframe for relief.     The capricious monsoon – drought preceding floods – has hit kharif production, which could end up over 21 million tonnes short. Output of rice and coarse cereals is expected to sag. What hope is the government holding out? One, due to late rains, larger areas cultivated for wheat, rice, pulses, oilseeds and sugarcane should boost the rabi yield, compensating for the kharif shortfall. Two, there’s enough foodgrain stocks to keep the PDS ticking, and enough foreign exchange reserves for foodgrain and oilseed imports if required. To be fair, the UPA’s okay to rice imports and scrapping of import duty on rice were forward-looking policy decisions.     However, there’s no insulating the rural and urban poor or the middle class from spiralling vegetable prices. It’s in such situations that our ramshackle storage and transport system for perishables stands exposed. That huge quantities of fruits, vegetables and grains go waste every year is especially galling given today’s soaring prices. Also, despite healthy foodgrain stocks, there are official concerns about a demand-supply mismatch. This gap can worsen unless the PDS’s notorious leakages are plugged. More, foodgrain should be released into the open market to dampen inflation.     This year’s lesson highlights the issue of monsoon preparedness through improved forecasting and specific strategies for demarcated agro-climatic zones. But even beyond that, agriculture isn’t growing according to potential. It suffers structural anomalies impinging on food production, not least because only 40 per cent of arable land is irrigated. Not only must irrigation cover increase, it must be more innovative from the point of view of water conservation. Efficient capital deployment and use of technology require average farm size to increase. On the distribution side, we need boosted investment in warehousing and integrated cold chains, removal of middlemen in transactions and greater marketing opportunities for farmers through liberalised retail. Finally, reform is in order of archaic rules governing inter-state movement and marketing of farm products.
Food prices continue to soar, up 13.6% TIMES NEWS NETWORK New Delhi: Food prices in the last week of October 2009 rose by 13.68% from that a year ago. As against this, in the previous week, annual food inflation was 13.39%. According to the latest data released by government on Thursday, prices of potato have doubled during the one-year period ending October 31, 2009, while onions became expensive by 42.58%.     High food prices also pushed up inflation of primary articles — items that are not processed — by 9.16%. Pulses were dearer by 22.73%. Despite all the claimed made by the government, food prices continue to rise week-on-week basis also. The government will release the monthly data on wholesale prices-based inflation of all the commodities, which would reflect price movement in manufacturing, on November 14.     With Rabi harvest in March 2010, prices of food articles are expected to come down. Planning Commission deputy chairman Montek Singh Ahulwalia said, ‘‘Food price inflation by the end of the current fiscal would be significantly lower than what it is right now. Prices of vegetables are expected to ease in the coming months."     Crisil principal economist D K Joshi said that pressure on food prices would continue for some more time before starting to ease on news of Rabi crop. Among other items, prices of rice increased by 16.63% and milk by 10.3%.     On the other hand, non-food items, which include fibre, oil seeds and minerals, declined by 0.17%. The index of fuel, power, light and lubricants decreased by 1.71%. Prices of light diesel oil fell by 3% and naphtha and furnace oil by 2% each during the week.     At the same time, prices of bajra increased 35%, fruit and vegetables by 2% and jowar, wheat and arhar by 1% each during the week under review. However, the prices of fish-marine declined by 3% and tea by 1%. Among non-food articles, fodder prices increased by 7%, groundnut seed 2% and raw cotton by 1%.
Food inflation up at 19% TIMES NEWS NETWORK New Delhi: Food prices continued to rise, with the index for daily living cost rising to over 19% in the fourth week of November, year-on-year, mounting pressure on the government to rein in rates of essential items and RBI to tighten purse-strings. Potatoes, onions and pulses were the main elements driving food inflation north.     Data on Thursday showed prices went up nearly 2% in a week. Food inflation had stood at 17.47% for the week ended November 21. However, the overall wholesale price index-based inflation for the month ended October stood at 1.34%.     The RBI will review its current easy monetary policy stance on January 29, although RBI governor D Subbarao has said WPI (wholesale price index) is “quite modest” compared to consumer prices. “If inflationary pressure persists for a long time it can fuel inflationary expectations and monetary policy will have to take a nuanced view on this,” the RBI governor had said on Wednesday.     As per latest data, potatoes cost more than double on an annual basis, while onions 23% more. Rates of other essential commodities like rice rose 11.75%, wheat 12.6% and pulses rose by 42%. At the same time, fruits were costlier by 13% while milk was 11.36% more expensive.
Inflation hits 10-month high TIMES NEWS NETWORK New Delhi: The rate of inflation shot up to a 10-month high of 4.78% during November, against just 1.34% in October, largely on account of rising food prices. This may prompt the Reserve Bank of India to change its monetary policy to tighten money supply, leading to a rise in interest rates.     Such a steep rise in the annual rate of inflation, based on whole sale price index, is mainly due to sharp rise in the prices of primary articles, including food items. While the index of primary articles rose by 11.8%, that of food items went up by a whopping 16.7%, according to the latest data released by the government on Monday for November. In fact, the weekly data released by the government on food items last Thursday shows that food inflation had shot up by 19.04% in the last week of November as against the same period last year.     The monthly data shows that potato prices have surged by a whooping 101% during the last one year, arhar by 64%, moong and urad by around 50%, and onion by 32%. On the other hand, minerals, edible oils and leather products have become cheaper since March 2009.     Finance minister Pranab Mukherjee attributed the 4.78% spurt in inflation in November to rising prices of food articles. ‘‘Inflation has risen high mainly because of the food article prices have gone up,’’ Mukherjee said.     However, finance secretary Ashok Chawla said the rising price of commodities has always been a matter of concern for the government, and the government has been taking administrative steps to contain inflation.     Chawla added that the latest inflation numbers are not surprising and does not call for any immediate emergency measures at this stage. “The fact that food inflation was high and that could reflect in the WPI was also known,” Chawla said, adding the government would see whether the rise in inflation was on account of the base effect or is a trend that is likely to continue.     The latest figures, economists feel will force RBI to take harsh measures like making money costly by increasing the interest rates to dampen the demands in the market. Suresh Tendulkar, former chairman of the Prime Minister’s Economic Advisory Council (PMEAC), said that the Reserve Bank could take steps to withdraw liquidity to tame rising prices. The apex bank is slated to announce review of its annual credit policy next month. The RBI in its monetary policy review in October revised the inflation forecast to 6.5% by March-end from 5% earlier. PRICE PUSH Inflation up largely due to rocketing food prices Cost of food items rose 16.7% year-on-year in Nov, 19.04% in last week of Nov Potato prices led surge with 101% rise in last one year Case building for higher interest rates, say economists
Food inflation soars to 20% A 10-Year-High; Govt Plans Import To Boost Supply; RBI May Tighten Policy TIMES NEWS NETWORK New Delhi: Food prices have hit a 10-year-high as supply shortages due to poor monsoon and floods in some parts finally bit hard, forcing a worried government to announce a step-up in imports and strengthening expectations of RBI tightening policy to stop a breakout of inflation in the wider economy.     Prices of potato, other vegetables and pulses drove inflation to 19.95% in the year to December 5, surging from 19% in the previous week. The rise in food prices comes in a scenario when the economy is picking up strength after a dip in late 2008 and early 2009. This has sparked fears that to check demand, RBI may go for higher interest rate regime.     On an annual basis, potato prices zoomed 136% and pulses became costlier by over 40%. Onion prices rose 15.4%. Other food items that became costlier include wheat 14%, milk 13.6%, rice 12.7% and fruits 11%.     ‘‘Food prices are going up and this is an area of concern... we have to take appropriate measures to see what best could be done by augmenting supply through imports,'' finance minister Pranab Mukherjee told reporters. On November 24, Mukherjee had said the government could import rice to curb price rise, the first time in 20 years that India talked of such imports.     Mukherjee's statement came even as a parliamentary committee criticised his ministry for not taking timely action to check price rise. Besides other things, the report of the standing committee on finance asked the government to amend the Essential Commodities Act to check hoarding and speculation. ‘‘The ministry of finance... has obviously failed to intervene timely and squarely address this burning issue (price rise) with due seriousness,'' the report said.     Monthly price data for November showed maufacturing prices rose an annual 4%. Many saw this as a pointer to firms being able to pass on higher costs on the back of a robust recovery in the economy. The annual wholesale price inflation, which stood at 1.34% in October, rose to 4.78% in November. This has spurred analysts to predict an 8% inflation by the end of the fiscal, much higher than 6.5% forecast by RBI.     Earlier this week, chairman of PM's Economic Advisory Council C Rangarajan had said by the end of March 2010, inflation could be close to 7%. ‘‘We need to watch for behaviour of prices in December... possibly some action will be taken (by the RBI), which can have a moderating effect (on inflation),'' he had said.     Many feel RBI may raise CRR (cash reserve ration, or money that banks need to retain) to suck out excess liquidity from the financial system when it annnounces credit policy in January. This could be the first step and may be followed by other measures to tighten purse-strings. Costlier Living On an annual basis, potato prices zoomed 136% and pulses became costlier by over 40%. Onion prices rose 15.4% Standing committee on finance asked govt to amend Essential Commodities Act to stop hoarding and speculation We have to take appropriate measures to see what best could be done by augmenting supply through imports, says FM Pranab Mukherjee
Mayawati government to crack whip on hoarders TIMES NEWS NETWORK Lucknow: Concerned with price hike of essential commodities in the recent weeks, the Mayawati government has decided to crack the whip against hoarders. The government has also decided to resort to market intervention scheme in order to stabilise the prices of goods of daily uses.     In connection with this, chief secretary Atul Kumar Gupta held a top-level meeting here to discuss the issue at length with officials concerned and take stringent measures against black-marketeers.     For this purpose, the chief secretary directed all divisional commissioners and district magistrates to ensure no-exploitation of people by traders and horders in their respective areas. The CS asked them to hold review meeting to study the market trend every day and take remedial measures wherever they were necessary. He said these officials should also hold meetings with office bearers of the Vyapar Mandal in order to seek their cooperation in stabilising the prices of essential commodities.     As a part of market intervention scheme, the CS said that 24,200 MT of yellow peas (Pili Matar) would be released soon in the market and it would be sold at the rate of Rs 15 per kg though fair price shops. In case, if there was need to import other pulses, the government would go in for their import and sell them at cheaper rate in order to provide direct relief to the commoner.     Admitting the adverse impact of inflation on common man, he said the price of raw rice had increased by 13% and common arhar dal by 15%. Worst affected were potato and onion, which had shown an increase of 41% and 33%, respectively in their prices. As for vegetables, he said agencies like the essential commodities corporation, employees welfare organisation, provincial cooperative federation, provincial cooperative dairy federation and horticulture federation would be roped in to buy vegetables in bulk directly from villagers and sell them in the market.     The chief secretary on the occasion, set up a high-level committee to study the market trend and the role of retail shopkeepers and submit a report shortly for an action plan.     Meanwhile, the employees welfare corporation on the occasion also pressed its two mobile vans for selling goods of daily use at controlled prices. More such vans would be pressed into the service, if they were found useful by the people, said Jacob Thomas, principal secretary, food and civil supplies. These vans would sell goods like pulses, flour, rice and other eatables between 12 noon and 8 pm in different localities.
Food inflation at 19.8% as pulses, potatoes jump... TIMES NEWS NETWORK New Delhi: After easing a bit in the previous week, food inflation was back to near-20% levels in the third week of December as items such as potatoes and pulses continued to belie hopes of sustained relief over prices of essential commodities. The wholesale pricebased index of food articles increased by 1.18% for the week ended December 19 from 18.65% a week ago. One week before that, food inflation had stood at the decade’s highest level of 19.95%.     In Kolkata, finance minister Pranab Mukherjee said farm production is likely to show contraction in the third quarter as a result of poor monsoon. If this happens, inflation may not ease substantially. However, he said there is no sign that excess money supply is leading to inflation.     The rise in food prices is mainly due to dearer essential items like potatoes, onions, pulses etc. Potato price more than doubled while pulses became costlier by over 41% over the last one year. Onion rose by 40.75%. Besides potatoes, onions and pulses, rice rose by 12.95%, wheat by 12.66%, milk by 13.61% and fruits by 10.35% on a yearly basis.     Average food inflation so far stood at 12% as on December 19, while inflation of primary articles (nonprocessed items), including food, stood at 15.49%. Prices of fuel, power, light and lubricants rose at a rate of 4.45% during the week ended December 19 from 3.94% a week ago. This is despite the fact that cooking gas prices declined by 7.42%, petrol by 2.18% and high speed diesel by 0.19%.     Analysts say there is still a risk of high food prices and the RBI could take monetary tightening measures to moderate it. The RBI will come out with its third quarter review of the monetary policy on January 29. According to the PM’s economic advisory panel, the overall inflation is likely to cross RBI’s estimate of 6.5% and it may have to take monetary action to tame it. ‘‘By the end of March 2010, inflation could be close to 7%,” council chairman C Rangarajan had said recently.
Do-it-yourself India Jug Suraiya     India is increasingly a do-it-yourself country. And the government of India should give a medal to the residents of Tajnagar village, near Gurgaon, for setting a new benchmark in the DIY (do-ityourself) scheme of things. Having waited a quarter of a century in vain to get their own railway station from a sarkar that seemed deaf to all their pleas, the enterprising Tajnagaris had a whip around among themselves, raised Rs 21 lakh, and set up their own railway station, certainly the first DIY railway station in India, if not in the world.     God is said to help those who help themselves. Our sarkar goes one better than God: it doesn’t even help those who help themselves, but implicitly urges them to continue the good work and keep helping themselves some more because – as sure as eggs is eggs – the sarkar certainly ain’t going to help anyone.     In that way our sarkar is eminently fair, and does not discriminate on the basis of caste, creed or gender. It leaves us all – irrespective of particular persuasion – to help ourselves to whatever it is that we think we require.     You want an uninterrupted supply of bijli? Fine, it’s not an unreasonable request. But don’t look to the sarkar, or any of its many agencies, to generate it for you; you’ve got to do it yourself. Get a genset. Or a kerosene lantern and a handheld pankha. What? No kerosene available in the government-run fair price shops? Haven’t you ever heard of a do-it-yourself source of supply for kerosene – or for that matter for anything else you might require, like potatoes, and onions, and dal and rice – which is called the black market?     No municipal water to be had? Stop bellyaching and get on with the job of digging a community bore well in your area. Set up a rain harvesting system. Push comes to shove, buy bottled water. To drink? No, dummy. To bathe in. It’s either that or don’t take off your clothes before sending them to the drycleaners.     Government hospitals and healthcare centres either non-existent or full of rats, disease and infections? Go to a private – read, do-it-yourself – nursing home. What do you mean you can’t afford it? Of course you can. What do you think do-it-yourself medical insurance is for, for which you have to pay those humongous annual premiums?     There are no textbooks, blackboards or teachers at your local sarkari school? Send your kid to a school set up by a do-it-yourself entrepreneur who charges swingeing fees for the services provided. Almost everything in India is on a do-it-yourself basis. Electricity, water, health, schooling. With the virtual collapse of the governmental postal system, the sarkari postman has become an endangered, if not a nearextinct, species, spotted only at Diwali time when he rings your doorbell to collect his yearly baksheesh. The rest of the time you deal with a do-it-yourself delivery system called a courier company.     Rising incidence of crime in your neighbourhood and the cops unable, or unwilling, or both, to do anything about it? Employ do-it-yourself security guards to protect your property and your person. In some parts of the country you have not just do-it-yourself cops but do-ityourself armies, like the Ranvir Sena, or the Salwa Judum. And to provide competition to these, you have another do-ityourself army called the Naxalites, who are said to run a parallel do-it-yourself state-within-a-state in over 160 districts across the country.     Each day, in every way, India’s do-ityourself capacity increases, as exemplified by the resourceful villagers of Tajnagar who got themselves their own DIY railway station, thus relieving railway minister Mamatadi of an onerous chore. The sarkar should recognise and honour such doit-yourself enterprise. The residents of Tajnagar deserve a medal for the DIY spirit they’ve shown. Trouble is, the medal will also have to be of the DIY variety, because the sarkar can’t supply even that.     secondopinion@timesgroup.com http://blogs.timesofindia.indiatimes.com/     jugglebandhi/ 
Govt gets cracking on curbing prices PM Will Ask CMs To Prevent Hoarding TIMES NEWS NETWORK New Delhi: Hit by soaring food inflation, the government moved into urgent damage control mode on Wednesday, with Prime Minister Manmohan Singh stepping into the frame and deciding to meet chief ministers to urge stronger antihoarding measures and improved lifting and distribution of foodgrains.     The Centre plans to quickly release 2-3 million tonnes of wheat and rice into the retail market, using its own agencies like NAFED and NCCF besides PDS outlets. This stock will cost more than PDS grain, but will help cool retail rates. Subsidies under a scheme for cheaper edible oil may be increased too.     The prime minister is expected to meet chief ministers around January 27 and his involvement in resolving the price rise tangle is an indication of the level of concern in the government. Thought For Food Centre to release 2-3 million tonnes of wheat and rice into retail market Subsidy on imported edible oil may be increased PM expected to meet CMs around Jan 27; likely to call for tough steps against speculators and review of foodgrain release system UP millers will be allowed to process imported raw sugar outside the state Zero import duty on white sugar till end of year ‘Prices to come down in 10 days’ New Delhi: PM Manmohan Singh has personally intervened in the fight against price rise. He is expected to call for tough steps against speculators and review the foodgrain release system as some states are not using their foodgrain quotas.     Agriculture minister Sharad Pawar — who has drawn much of the flak for price rise — faced the media after a meeting of the Cabinet Committee on Prices on Wednesday and expressed confidence that prices would begin to moderate within a week to 10 days. But he also pointed to the sharp escalation between the wholesale mandis and retailers. “In Delhi itself, potatoes are a little under Rs 5 a kg but cost Rs 11 a kg at sale points,” he said. Similar was the case with onions, dals and groundnut oil, he said.     With regard to sugar prices, which sent the government into a tizzy as they approached Rs 50 a kg, the government has decided to allow UP millers to process imported raw sugar outside the state. This would get around UP chief minister Mayawati’s objection to mills in the state — that hold most of the imported raw sugar — processing the product.     With the ruling coalition feeling the political heat, the CCP chaired by the PM considered a set of options shortlisted by PMO.     On pulses, another food item that has become dearer, Pawar told reporters after the CCP meeting that state governments were urged to make use of a scheme to distribute imported pulses at a subsidy of Rs 10 a kg. Public sector trading agencies had been asked to tap all possible sources to import pulses which were proving out of reach for the aam aadmi. States are being urged to waive VAT and other taxes as has been done by Delhi.
Double-digit inflation by Mar? Jumps To 7.31% In Dec; RBI May Be Forced To Tighten Money Supply TIMES NEWS NETWORK New Delhi: The annual rate of inflation based on wholesale prices jumped to 7.31% for the month of December, 2009 as compared to 4.78 % for November. This is likely to force RBI to follow the tight monetary policy resulting into increase in the interest rates.     At 7.31%, it is already above the Reserve Bank of India's projection of 6.5% with upside bias by March 2010. According to Sonal Varma of Nomura Global Economics, a research firm, at the current pace, inflation is likely to rise above 8% in January and inch closer to double-digits by March, 2010.     Also, data released at December-end showed that consumer price-based inflation accelerated to 13.5% in November, 2009 from 11.5%. Varma said eonomic activity is accelerating and inflationary pressures are rising. The December figure is on the top of high inflation of 6.15% in December 2008. The latest figure — driven up mainly by sugar, pulses and potato — added to the government's worries over price rise and will push back any effort to free motor fuel prices.     The numbers also reinforced the expectation of a tighter monetary policy by RBI. The last time wholesale inflation exceeded the December level was in November, 2008 when it had reached 8%. A ray of hope, however, came from weekly food inflation that eased a tad to 17.28% in the week ended January 2 from 18.22% a week ago but pulses, potatoes and onions remained expensive. Despite signs of cooling off, overall data does not allow for slack and point towards a deepening food inflation threatening to spill over into the wider economy.     Prices of processed food items, for example, rose 26.40% in December and nonprocessed food items turned expensive by 19.17%. Potatoes rose over 70% during the week ended January 2, onions and pulses over 45% each and cereals by over 14%.     "Week-on-week it (food inflation) is down, which is a very good (sign). There are a whole lot of measures that are going through that have been decided on," chief economic advisor Kaushik Basu said. Earlier, Planning Commission deputy chairman Montek Singh Ahluwalia had also said that food inflation would ease next month as fear of negative impact of poor monsoon on farm produce has eased.     But the worry is now that prices of manufacturing items may rise due to increase in demand because of revival in the economic activities. The weekly inflation data released on Thursday shows a steep increase in naphtha, bitumen and furnace oil prices. Rising prices of fibres and oilseeds have also led to an increase in nonfood primary articles by 3.9% in December from November and an additional 0.7% in the first week of January.     Therefore, Varma said that inflationary pressures are still building and the current input cost inflation is expected to result in higher manufactured product prices in coming months. In addition, while food price inflation appears to be abating, much of the fall is confined to fruits and vegetables. Costlier Living Consumer price-based inflation accelerates to 13.5% in November, 2009 from 11.5% in October, 2009. The latest surge is driven mainly by the price rise in sugar, pulses and potato Moreover, prices of manufacturing items may rise due to increase in demand because of revival in the economic activities. This may result in inputcost-led inflation in manufacturing sector
RELIEF FROM RISING PRICES Retailers plan R-day discounts to boost sales Rupali Mukherjee | TNN New Delhi: Consumers reeling under inflationary pressure can expect some relief on their daily consumption basket with major retail chains planning to offer attractive deals and huge discounts on essentials like food and clothing, and others like high-value consumer durables, appliances and home care products around the Republic Day. Food inflation is hovering over 17% mainly due to increase in prices of pulses, sugar, onions and potatoes.     Large retailers like Big Bazaar, part of the Future group, have created a major shopping event (Sabse Saste Din) around Republic Day, a holiday for most of the country, to entice consumers, who otherwise shopped only during festivals like Diwali or special occasions like weddings.     This year it will be the fifth such shopping festival — expected to grow sales by 25-30% over last year's revenues of nearly Rs 200 crore registered during this event alone.     "Shopping festivals like this spur customers to make aspirational purchases, buy discretionary products and try out new products (like snack foods, beanbags) thanks to great deals (this year) offered on 300-400 products, along with discounts on durables and appliances ranging from 5-35% during these days," says Sadashiv Nayak, president, Big Bazaar     For instance, a couple of years back 80,000 DVD players were sold over the three-day shopping event at a marked down price of Rs 4,000, and last year, people flocked to buy 22,000 food combos (5 kg each of rice, edible oil and sugar) at Rs 599. By offering huge discounts and deals on these products, retailers like Big Bazaar and Reliance Retail have also become ‘price warriors' in certain categories like durables, electronics and even clothes.     During these shopping festivals generally around a weekend, retailers can expect sales to go up three to four times, combined with a huge spurt in footfalls. For example, last year during ‘Sabse Saste Din', there were 55 lakh customer walk-ins at Big Bazaar stores across 70 cities, an increase of footfalls by four to six times, while the sales quadrupled and touched nearly Rs 200 crore. So for both customers and retailers it has emerged as a win-win proposition.     Agrees, a Spencer's Retail official: "We research on the consumers shopping habits during specific occasions and construct the promos in a manner that they fit the shopping requirement of the consumers, ensure ‘value for money', induce additional purchases which in turn boost our average bill value for us. Hence, it is a win-win situation for both the consumers and the retailers like us as both the parties get what they want in terms of savings and revenue generated, respectively".     This year there is a renewed interest, retailers feel, in shopping festivals due to rising food prices, and consumers can expect savings of 10-15% on entire shopping basket. "The recent increase in prices of food essentials like pulses, sugar and atta can be offset by savings made on clothing, packaged food and discretionary products like fashion, footware and gold," an executive with a large retail chain said.     With the success of these events, retailers start planning for it over six months in advance and place orders to get best deals.
PDS grain quota upped by 10kg Govt Announces Sop For Poor Even As Food Inflation Slides For 3rd Week TIMES NEWS NETWORK New Delhi: Faced with rising food prices, the government moved to buffer the poor beyond their PDS allocations by deciding to supply an additional 10 kg of wheat and rice to beneficiary families over the next two months. This is above the 35 kg of wheat and rice supplied to BPL families.     The need to do something was felt after criticism that the government had not done enough to contain price rise and failed to react to anticipated shortfalls in production, particularly for commodities like sugar. There has been a sense of urgency in government after Congress made its concern apparent with party general secretary Rahul Gandhi revealing that he had discussed the matter with Prime Minister Manmohan Singh.     The increase in PDS allocations will help the poor as it will reduce the additional foodgrains they have to purchase from the open market. The measure will also address the Centre’s frustration with states which have refused to lift foodgrain under the open market scheme. The stepped up allocations are expected to work in tandem with direct sales through agencies like NAFED.     The Cabinet Committee on Prices reviewed the prices of essential commodities and identified pulses, sugar, potatoes and onions as major concerns. An official statement said an ad-hoc allocation of 10 kg per family per month will be available to cardholders under AAY, BPL and APL category. The total additional allocation for the country will be 10.64 lakh tonnes of rice and 25.43 lakh tonnes of wheat. State governments will be allowed to lift this quantity by March 2010. This allocation will be at MSP of Rs 10.80 per kg for wheat and Rs 15.37 per kg for rice. There was some marginal relief for the government with food inflation sliding for the third week in a row with the week ending January 9 logging 16.81%. But prices of essential items of daily consumption continued to get dearer. Despite the decrease, food inflation is higher than 11.59% in the comparative period last year. A week earlier, food inflation was pegged at 17.28%. On a year-on-year basis, prices of potatoes are higher by 50% and pulses dearer by almost 48%.     Even though some economists see food inflation softening in the weeks ahead to soothe the overall inflation, chief statistician Pronab Sen expects wholesale price-based inflation to rise to 9% by March-end from over 7% in December.     On the other hand Suresh Tendulkar, who heads the PM’s economic advisory council, said, “The easing (of food inflation), I expect to continue. There would be impact on other prices also and the general inflation level.” Some economists also feel rising food prices would force RBI to tighten money supply but it would not lead to rise in lending rates as there is excess liquidity in the system. A BJP delegation met the PM on Wednesday to submit a memorandum on price rise. JD(U) announced a country-wide agitation on February 10 with party leader Sharad Yadav blaming the Centre for its failure to control spiralling prices of essential commodities. Meanwhile, foggy mornings and delayed flights have forced the PM’s meeting with CMs to discuss the volatile price situation to be put off. Scheduled for January 27, it will now take place on February 6. The meeting is being postponed keeping in view the possibility of flights being delayed due to thick fog. Growing Worry PDS allocation of additional 10kg of rice and wheat would be over and above the 35kg supplied to each eligible family now Govt authorizes cooperative major NAFED and National Cooperative Consumers Federation to sell 70,084 tonnes of wheat and 28,000 tonnes of rice through their outlets To bolster wheat supply in open market, price lowered for sale to bulk consumers; time lag in finalization of tenders reduced Additional 25.43 lakh tonnes of wheat state governments will be allowed to lift this quantity by March 2010
GUARDED OPTIMISM OVER INFLATION Prices stabilizing; will they hold? Slew Of Govt Measures Bear Fruit, But Not Enough To Ease Pressure TIMES NEWS NETWORK New Delhi: There is a thin silver lining on the food price front with some signs of stability in rates though it is still too early to say whether the trend will hold long enough to enable the Manmohan Singh government to pull its chestnuts out of the fire stoked by rising inflation.     After Centre sent out a political signal on January 13 that it was prepared to fight inflation through a slew of price control measures including calling a meeting of chief ministers and later announcing an increase in wheat and rice PDS quotas, prices have remained more or less stable. In comparison to a week ago, only wheat is dearer by 50 paise a kg.     What may give Congress managers some reason for cautious anticipation is that prices also seem to be levelling off when compared to a month ago. Rice has stayed at Rs 23 a kg for a month since December 21, 2009 while wheat was Rs 15 a kg, dipped to Rs 14.50 a kg and is now again at Rs 15 a kg in the same span of time. Atta has remained at Rs 17.50 a kg through this time period.     The comparative retail prices for Delhi compiled for the Cabinet Committee of Prices shows that in the month gone by gram dal has declined from Rs 40 to Rs 39 a kg, tur dal from Rs 88.50 a kg to Rs 88 a kg, urad dal from Rs 76 a kg to Rs 74 a kg, masoor dal from Rs 66 a kg to Rs 63 while moong has remained at Rs 81 a kg. Milk has been at Rs 22 a kg while groundnut oil increased from Rs 112 a kg to Rs 113 a kg.     Sugar has declined from Rs 47 a kg a week ago to Rs 44 a kg though it is higher than what it was a month ago at Rs 37 a kg. Mustard oil has remained at Rs 71 a kg while vanaspati went down to Rs 56 a kg from Rs 57 a kg. Potato is at Rs 10 a kg from Rs 12 a kg a month back but onion is more expensive at Rs 23.50 a kg than Rs 22 a kg. Apart from it being early days, a comparison over prices three months ago shows clearly how retail rates have gone up. Wheat was then Rs 13 a kg, atta Rs 15 a kg, gram dal Rs 35 a kg, tur dal Rs 83 a kg, urad dal Rs 63 a kg, sugar was Rs 32 a kg, milk Rs 21 a kg, groundnut oil Rs 94 a kg, mustard Rs 62 a kg and vanaspati at Rs 51 a kg. But potatoes and onions were costlier at Rs 22 a kg and Rs 24 a kg.     What is really worrying the government are signs that inflation is becoming more generalized beyond food prices that it can hope to control through supply side interventions. Not only are food prices still high and the comparison over a three-month period shows this clearly, a gradual increase in demand is also now pushing up core sector inflation. Official sources point out that the government may well be a victim of its success in pushing more money into the rural economy through programmes like MNREGA and steadily rising minimum support prices not to speak of other state-level subsidies. This combined with a rise in industrial production and consumption in urban areas has pushed growth back onto an upward curve.     If food inflation actually begins to taper off, it will ease the pressure on government and hold off demands for increasing interest rates. While the January 29 Reserve Bank of India review may not touch interest rates, the possibility of this happening soon thereafter cannot be ruled out if WPI continues to head for the 10% mark by March, much above the central bank’s 6.5% prediction in October last year.
J U G U L A R V E I N Paisa vasool Jug Suraiya     Inflation? Forget it. Never mind that prices – particularly food prices – have gone not just through the roof but through all future roof rights on that benighted roof. Never mind that onions have become the new pearls, tomatoes the new rubies, and potatoes the new diamonds. Never mind that unscrupulous racketeers are busy adulterating arhar dal with gold dust, and parmal rice with platinum filings. Never mind all that irrelevant stuff. There is still one product – some would say the most important product of this country – which has beaten inflation not only hands down but arms, legs and feet down as well.     A couple of weeks ago i spotted an advertising hoarding announcing this product. Which was on sale for one paisa. One whatdidhesay? Paisa? What’s that? An entire generation of Indians has grown up for whom a paisa is not even a race memory. They’ve never known of its existence, and on encountering the word might well surmise it to mean some new kind of pasta, like penne, but different, or maybe that ancient old Guru Dutt movie, Pyasa, but misspelt.     I don’t blame them. I’m pretty ancient, at least as ancient as Pyasa, and i can barely remember the paisa, the one-hundredth unit of a rupee. I can’t remember when i last saw one, let alone trying to buy something with one. They probably stopped making the paisa years ago, when some boffin in the sarkari mint figured out that the copper used in the making of the coin was probably worth several times more than the paisa was.     And what was the paisa worth, in terms of purchasing power? What could you buy with it, what could you buy with one single paisa? Absolute zilch, so far as i could make out. Presumably, just presumably mind, you might on a good day and if the wind was blowing in the right direction induce someone to sell you a matchstick for one paisa. One matchstick. With no matchbox to go with it. So what were you going to do with your one matchstick? How were you going to light it? You could of course ask to borrow someone else’s matchbox, perhaps that of the person who sold you the one matchstick. But this might make you seem like a cheapskate. Like you were the sort of person who’d borrow someone else’s comb to comb your own hair with, or someone else’s hanky you blow your nose into and then return to the person you’d borrowed it from. Icky.     Of course you could use your single matchstick to pick your teeth with. But if all you could afford to buy was one matchstick, the chances were pretty slim that you’d have anything between your teeth which needed picking out anyway.     I was still trying to digest this (food prices being what they are, my digestive system has grown cobwebs) when i saw another advertising hoarding. And this one was selling the same product as the first hoarding but was selling it for half a paisa. Half a paisa? How the heck did you halve a paisa? With a cleaver? By biting it between your teeth? And what could a halved paisa fetch you?     Half a single matchstick? And how would the matchstick be halved? Vertically or horizontally? In either case it would be pretty useless for anything. Even for picking teeth.     So what was this product that these hoardings were touting at one paisa and half a paisa respectively? Yes, the product in question was our GDP: our Greatest Domestic Product. Talk. The hoardings were advertising talk time on a cellphone service at one paisa per second and half a paisa per second.     It figures. All pricing is a question of demand and supply. Food is in great demand and in short supply, so food prices are high. Talk is in great supply and in short demand, so the price of talk is low. And where did we learn to talk so much? From our netas of course: We shall eradicate poverty, we shall control inflation, we shall grow at 7.5 per cent this year, we shall blah, blah, blah, blah, blah.     Never mind passing the buck. That’s how we pass the buk-buk.     jug.suraiya@timesgroup.com http://blogs.timesofindia.indiatimes.com/     jugglebandhi/ 
Pulses, potatoes push food inflation to 17.8% TIMES NEWS NETWORK New Delhi: Food inflation rose marginally to 17.87% for the week ended February 20 on the back of higher prices of milk, wheat, rice and vegetables. The figure in the previous week was at 17.58%. On an annual basis, price of rice increased 10%, wheat 14%, pulses 35%, onions 11% and potatoes 28%.     Inflation in fuel, power light and lubricant group was 9.59%, slightly lower than 9.89% in the previous week. However, it is expected to surge significantly next week when the impact of the fuel price hike would be reflected in the index.     The Budget last week raised customs duty on petrol and diesel to 7.5% from 2.5%, while excise duty was raised by Re 1 on non-branded (normal) petrol and diesel. This saw the oil companies immediately hike prices. Beginning February 27, petrol prices rose by Rs 2.67 a litre and diesel by Rs 2.58 per litre in Delhi.     FM Pranab Mukherjee on Wednesday had blamed the multi-level supply chain system for stoking prices of food articles in the country. "Particularly with regards to food, I do agree that the cost of intermediation is very high from farm gate to the wholesale markets and from wholesale markets to retail markets," he had said.
Food inflation spreads to other areas: RBI TIMES NEWS NETWORK New Delhi: Food inflation cooled a tad to 17.81% during the last week of February. But overall inflation may not see much decline soon due to costlier motor fuels. While food prices are expected to moderate further in the weeks ahead, overall inflation may hit double digits by March-end as manufactured goods and fuel are going to get costlier.     RBI also said high inflation, primarily driven by food prices, had started spreading to the broader economy but it was likely to ease on the back of an expected moderation in food prices. “Inflation is now broadbased and spreading to areas other than food, especially manufacturing, and is not just restricted to food inflation," agencies quoted RBI deputy governor Subir Gokarn.     Food inflation declined by 0.06 percentage points during the week ended February 27 from 17.87% in the previous week. Though a range of essential items still continue to be expensive, the pace of price rise has slowed down in the past few weeks. On year-on-year, pulses were dearer by 33.38, slightly lower than over 35% in the previous week. Potatoes turned costlier by 22.46% and onion rose by just 2.98%.     If the trend sustains, it would buttress the government's confidence that prices will start easing from April but a lot depends on Rabi (winter) crops.
Food prices dip but rate hike looms TIMES NEWS NETWORK New Delhi: Even as food inflation slid to 16.3% in the first week of March, the lowest in four months, as prices of vegetables and lentils cooled, the apprehension of RBI tightening the money supply, leading to rise in the interest rates has not receded.     With headline inflation pegged at 9.89% in March and expected to top 10% this month, the RBI is expected to suck out liquidity to check further inflationary pressures. RBI deputy governor KC Chakrabarty on Thursday did not rule out the possibility of interest rate hikes ahead of the apex bank's April policy review if inflation continues to rise. ‘‘If it is inevitable and the price situation warrants so, action can be taken any day... The present price situation is a matter of concern.''     Even the PM's advisory panel said the central bank may tighten money supply at its April policy or before, taking into consideration the price situation for the next few weeks. ‘‘The level of inflation itself is quite high and RBI may want to wait for a few weeks more to see whether food prices will decline as a consequence of better rabi harvests," Prime Minister's Economic Advisory Council chairman C Rangarajan said. ‘‘Then it might tighten liquidity, and if the inflation rate still persists, then will act on policy rates,'' he added.     However, softening of the food price in March vindicates the government's stand that food prices will decline in the coming months.     Food inflation had last dipped below the 16%-mark for the week ending November 15, 2009, when it had dropped to 15.58%. The index came down by 1.51 percentage points in the week under review from 17.81% in the week before March 6. Onion prices fell 11% in the wholesale market over the previous week and potato became chepaer by 3.5%. Overall vegetables prices during the same period dropped by 10.51%, while pulses came down 3.85%. "Food prices are coming down. Sugar prices have come down due to higher production estimates in major producing states like Maharashtra and Uttar Pradesh," agriculture and food minister Sharad Pawar told reporters.
OT H E R TO P S TO R I E S O F T H E DAY Invoke guarantee of UB, HPCL told New Delhi: Concerned at Kingfisher Airline's rising unpaid jet fuel bills, the government has asked Hindustan Petroleum (HPCL) to invoke the corporate guarantee given by Vijay Mallya's United Breweries (UB) Group to recover dues and supply ATF in future only against a bank guarantee.     The oil ministry on March 17 shot a letter to HPCL chairman asking him to convene a "special board meeting" to consider among other things invoking UB Group's Rs 250-crore corporate guarantee to recover part of Rs 602.05-crore outstanding. “The government has noted with concern the continued outstandings of Kingfisher Airlines (KFA) with HPCL on account of ATF supplies,” it said. “The outstanding were reported to be Rs 602 crore on March 4, 2010 with a security in the form of Rs 250 crore corporate guarantee from United Breweries.”     The ministry asked HPCL to place KFA on cashand-carry terms as is done by other state-run firms Indian Oil Corp (IOC) and Bharat Petroleum (BPCL) since early 2009. PTI Essar buys Aries mines for $200m New Delhi: Ruias-led Essar Group on Thursday announced signing of a deal to buy Aries coal mines in Indonesia for an estimated up to $200 million to partly meet the raw material needs of its power business. "The Essar Group announces that that it has signed a definitive agreement to purchase Aries coal mines in Indonesia," an Essar statement said. The company expects to close the deal, which is subject to regulatory approvals, by April 2010. Sources said the deal is estimated to be valued at around $175-200 million.     The Aries coal mines is estimated to have mineable reserves of 64 million tonnes of thermal coal. This is a second move by the group in a month towards securing raw material for its businesses. Essar Group on March 6 announced buying USbased Trinity Coal for $600 million.     "The transaction is part of Essar Power's strategy to continue to achieve backward integration and to secure raw material needs for its operations," the statement said. PTI Food inflation at 16.22%, 4-mth low New Delhi: Food inflation dropped to 16.22% for the week ended March 13, the lowest in four months, but the Reserve Bank of India could still raise rates for the second time in as many months in April to curb the impact of high food and fuel prices from spilling over to non-food items.     Food inflation had last slipped to below 16% in the week ending November 15, 2009, when it had dropped to 15.58%, according to the provisional figures. The index declined as the pace of rise in prices of potatoes slowed and other vegetables such as onions became cheaper. The index came down 0.08 percentage points from the previous week's level but is unlikely to prevent the headline inflation hitting the double-digit mark in March, up from 9.89% in February.     During the week, petrol prices rose 16.82% while diesel turned costlier by 14.99%, as government restored customs on crude and raised excise duty on petrol and diesel. FM Pranab Mukherjee had said food inflation may spread to other areas. TNN
J U G U L A R V E I N Baigun days Preparing ourselves for the Bt brinjal Jug Suraiya     The Bt brinjal has been put into cold storage, and i have mixed feelings about this. Food prices being as high as they are, anything that promised an increase in the supply of foodstuffs – as the Bt brinjal did – might be deemed to be no bad thing. On the hand, however, why a Bt brinjal? Why not a Bt potato, or a Bt onion, or almost any other veggie?     On my list of most hated veggies, brinjal ranks third. The first is karela. With its thick, scaly, warty skin it looks and tastes like the Great Horned Toad, found in the deserts of Arizona and New Mexico. No, i’ve never been to the deserts of Arizona and New Mexico. Nor have i ever seen a Great Horned Toad, much less eaten one. But the karela looks, and tastes like what i think a Great Horned Toad should look and taste like, were you to eat one in preference to the karela. Toss a coin. Heads toad, tails karela. Second on my list of villainous vegetables is the tinda. I have never eaten a tinda in my life. The sight of it is enough. Lightly sauteed, with a touch of haldi and dhania, it exudes the gelatinous squidginess of partly congealed phlegm. Yuck time.     Third comes the brinjal. Bulbous and purple black – the colour of midnight conspiracy and brooding stratagems – there is something profoundly sinister about the brinjal. Its aspect is that of a vegetable with a deep and dire secret, a vegetable whose malevolent visage might well adorn Wanted posters. For one thing there’s the spooky business of its many aliases. Why does a vegetable have to have so many names? It’s like those terrorist bods who call themselves al-Qaeda one day, LeT the next, and IM the third day, to keep one step ahead of not only the long arm of the law, but the even longer arm of their moms who don’t know who or what the heck they are any more.     The brinjal is like that, boasting more names than the Yellow Pages does under the listing for ‘Groups, Jehadi’. In English the brinjal is also known as aubergine. In Hindi it is baigun. In Bengali baygoon. In Kutchi and Gujarati it is ringro. In its albino avatar, when it is white and elongated, it becomes an eggplant. Why would anyone in their right minds trust a vegetable with so many different identities? What’s the damn thing trying to hide anyway?     Despite these many question marks that loom over it, our genetic scientists for some strange reason chose the brinjal as the subject of their experimentation, like latter-day Dr Frankensteins trying to create a monstrous baigun to end all baiguns. The unleashing of the Bt brinjal on the baigun-eating citizenry has been deferred, perhaps wisely. But before the Bt brinjal is let loose on us it is best to give a thought as to what we are going to do with it. In what form are people going to eat it? This could have many social and cultural ramifications. For instance, the Bengalis eat baigun as baygoon bhaja, deep fried in mustard oil. There is a theory that it is the repeated ingestion of baygoon bhaja which gave birth to the dyspeptic melancholy of Rabindra sangeet, one of whose famous songs is called ‘Baygoonair Parosmoni’ and goes ‘Ai baygoon purno koro, ai baygoon purno koro’ (finish this baigun, finish this baigun).     But perhaps the most acceptable form of the vegetable is in that of the Punjabi baigun bharta. A baigun is smoked on a fire. Chopped onion and spices added, the baigun has the living bejesus beaten out of it. This is ostensibly to soften it, but the real reason is to make sure it knows who’s boss. Whipped into submission, the baigun is made to know its place in the order of things.     So roll on the Bt brinjal revolution, whenever it comes. India that is Bharta will be ready for it.     jug.suraiya@timesgroup.com     http://blogs.timesofindia.indiatimes.com/jugglebandhi/ 
Food inflation down to 16.61% on rabi arrival TIMES NEWS NETWORK New Delhi: Food inflation cooled off by over one percentage point to a month's low of 16.61% in the week ended April 17 as pressure on prices declined with the arrival of rabi (winter) crops in the markets but analysts said price pressure will remain till June, with the effect of food inflation spreading to manufactured items.     But government officials said food prices will decline further as the projection of a normal monsoon will calm speculative activities in the commodities markets.     Over the week, inflation declined from 17.65% as prices of masur, jowar, fruits and vegetables dropped around 2% and that of wheat by 1%. However, moong, urad and fish-inland became costlier. Pulses, however, remained expensive by about 30%, milk by 22% and fruits by about 10% over the last year.     ‘‘The outlook is further brightened by the fact that a normal monsoon is predicted this year... Indications of softening of food inflation are clearly visible... It is expected that this decline will continue in the coming months uninterruptedly,'' finance minister Pranab Mukherjee had said on Wednesday.     Though food prices have started easing, overall inflation is on the rise, with it spreading to non-food segments. The wholesale pricebased inflation in March was 9.9%, much higher than RBI's projection of 8.5% by Marchend. On an annual basis, potatoes saw a significant fall of 28% in prices on glut in supplies in various parts of the country and onions became cheaper by 10%. To contain inflation, RBI had raised its key short-term lending and borrowing rates.
BRING IN THE MOTHER EARTH Use your creativity with terracotta artifacts and give your home an earthy décor informs FARAH     The word terracotta hails from Italy. It means fired clay. The production begins with the preparation of the clay. A clay-based unglazed ceramic art, terracotta art is an antique practice and bears testimony of man's civilization through various ages. The terracotta art works definitely multiplies the look of the contemporary and traditional home decor. There are many items created from terracotta like statues , pen stands, small lamps, small idols, the most popular being display items, statues and artifacts. It is very interesting to know how a lot many things are made from this material that insulates heat, tiles being one of them. Floor tiles are mostly used on the outdoor spaces and wall tiles are used for the purpose of decoration. Detailing more about terracotta, architect/designer Hashim Naqvi, avers, "No artistic medium has enjoyed such versatile applications as terracotta. From its humble beginnings as pottery it has evolved into sculpture and architecture. It has touched virtually every corner of the art world and worked its way from simple house wares to magnificent museum pieces. It is found in every culture on the planet and was use at one time or another by every civilization. It is hard to say what draws people to terracotta. Maybe it was chosen for its naturally occurring abundance, or for its easy manipulation, or for its durability. Or perhaps the allure of terracotta is in its inherent paradox: that with it men made of clay can form men made of clay." These simple ideas are a great way to get those terracotta pots out from under your porch and out of the way in the garage. You can use these décor tips and ideas inside or outside! 1. Organize Your Supplies Line the terra cotta pots up on your shelving in your home, office or even along the back of your desk. You can place pens, paper clips, notepads, and almost anything on them. Place the terra cotta saucer on top of the terra cotta pot an you can did another row of terra cotta pots to hold even more office supplies. If you have a ceramic drill bit you could also drill a hole in the terra cotta pot. Do this right below the lip of the pot. Now, use a screw to attach the terra cotta pot to the wall. This is a great way to add vertical storage to a small space. You can also drill through the elastic terra cotta pots. 2. Kitchen Storage "Traditional terra cotta pots and plastic planters are perfect to use in the food pantry. You can use them to store potatoes and onions in place of less attractive buckets. Just because it is the pantry doe not mean that it doesn't have to look good. You can also use smaller terra cotta pots on the kitchen counter or table and fill them with fruit. This make s a great centerpiece, adds storage to the kitchen, and even acts as great decoration. Pile those apple and oranges high and the kids can run by and grab one for as snack any time they want," says Sunidhi Agarwal, another designer. 3. Slim and trim Tall thin terra cotta pots are great as utensil holders in the kitchen. We recommend cleaning them and sealing the inside with some polyurethane to keep the porous surface closed. This way no bacteria or dirt will soak into the terra cotta pot. 4. Side Table with Storage For a unique side table in the bedroom or den (living room) try using on of those oversized terra cotta pots. All you need to do is place a large round piece of beveled glass on top. You could also use a piece of wood cut out in a circle. Be sure you use the large oversize terra cotta saucer that same with the pot. It will really finish the look. Terracotta tiles- The contemporary entrant Sujit Gupta from Reciprocal Pvt Ltd affirms, "The production begins with the preparation of the clay. As part of this process ground stone is added, which allows firing to take place at a higher temperature of the order of more than 1,000 degrees centigrade, thereby producing material that is stronger and more hardwearing. The pieces are then exposed to the hot sun that dries them up slowly. Fire completes the process transforming the tile in two fundamental ways, giving it firmness and colour." Usage Using terracotta tiles on the walls can be a little tricky as the decor should either blend or complement the overall decor. "Tiles are available in a few shades of brown in selective tile showrooms. They can be used in the foyer, living room, family room, terrace and balcony garden or even in the corridors. Their presence gives an earthy and countryside look and adds simplicity yet elegance to the interiors," adds Sujit Gupta. Create a pattern with the theme sculpted on the tiles to create a magical effect. A beautiful border made from rectangular tiles can be made to define a corner adorned with a fountain or terracotta statues Designer Sunidhi tells about the décor aspect, "Potted plants combined with tiles near a wall or a corner in the foyer presents a welcoming picture. A long rectangular strip with a procession theme can liven up a neglected corridor. Avoid using more of terracotta if you already have brass and other metal artifacts in the living room. However, a single big piece can be hung at the center of a plain wall. Your terrace garden or the balcony can be adorned using an array of smaller tiles on one of the walls. This will pep up the place and keep it cool especially during summers. Avoid using the same in your bathroom, as they may not go well with ceramic tiles. Terracotta tiles can be hand painted using poster colours." Cost A simple 1 X 1 inch tile costs around Rs 450. Bigger the tile and more intricate the crafting more is the price. The disadvantage of using bigger tiles is since they are made from clay they are very heavy and also susceptible to easy breakage. Hence they have to be handled with utmost care.
TOUCHES 10.06% Inflation in double digits TIMES NEWS NETWORK New Delhi: The wholesale prices-based inflation breached the double-digit mark in February at 10.06%, the first time in 16 months, even as quick estimates for April showed the index lower at 9.59%. The figures for February inflation was provisionally estimated at 9.89% but final numbers showed it had crossed double digits.     The last time wholesale inflation was in double digits was in October 2008 when it had risen to 11.8%. Data for April showed potato prices declining 28.7% and onion dipping 11.62%.
CHIKAN MASALA Armed with a variety of add-ons and keeping intact its traditional charm, the art of chikankari continues to scale new heights in Lucknow. And now, its innovative designs are attracting new buyers, says Shailvee Sharda     Acoarse thread that unites with fine cotton cloth to contour chikankari was the cord of love between the Mughal emperor Jehangir and his queen Noor Jehan. According to legend, Noor Jehan drew a chikankari motif on a muslin handkerchief and presented it to the emperor. So deep was the impression left by the gossamery chikan that Jehangir lost his heart, both to the art and Noor Jehan. In subsequent years, the art came to be patronised by the Nawabs of Avadh, making Lucknow the most prominent centre of chikankari. Circa 2010. Simplicity’s out. Trendz in vogue...     Chikankari has opened up to fusion to win over the hearts of its buyers. Artisans are now playing with colours, fabrics, laces and other add-ons to win accolades for themselves while making the art scale new heights. In vogue are chikankari on south cotton, kota zari, cotton silk, south silk and benarasi silk. Talking about colours, pastels are off the shelves and making way to the showroom windows are maroon, navy blue, red, mauve, black, onion pink, sea green, rust, browns and so on. “We offer skirts, capris, pyjamas, white salwars, designer tops for jeans or trousers, short kurtas for mix and match besides the usual stuff,” said M Tariq Zubair, a store owner in Chowk as he displayed some of his masterpieces. Vibha Khanna, who has been into the business for several years, says that keeping with the trend has enabled chikankari scale new heights. “When I was in college, simple dressing meant chikankari, but today the embroidery is synonymous with a daily-designer-wear,” she says. Admirers galore...     To Ravi Bhatt, who has authored several books on Avadh, chikankari is a beautiful woman. “She (read art of chikankari) was elegant but her admirers (read buyers) were enticed by stylish rivals. So she decided to transform. The metamorphosis has made her the heart-throb of all,” he describes. The change has made chikankari an all-season wear for Nawab Ibrahim, who hails from a royal family in Lucknow. “I have bought a silk kurta embellished with sequence work and contrast coloured work, and believe me, I get lot of compliments if I wear it in any gathering outside Lucknow,” he says. Dr AP Tikku, a dental faculty with Chhatrapati Shahuji Maharaj Medical University, is in love with this new age chikan avataar. His wife finds it an ideal gift for people of all ages. “The wide range of apparels can be picked for college-goers, housewives and even the elderly,” she believes. Dr Tikku adds that many doctors who visit the city make sure to keep their date with chikan stores here. Moolah Mantra     “Things that do not change... die,” believes Har Prasad Agarwal, a senior officebearer in the Lucknow Chikan Handicrafts Association and who has been into the business for over 40 years. Agarwal’s words hint that the community has engulfed the change with open arms. Mesmerised completely, Agarwal worded the transition saying, “It’s like watching Mughal-e-Azam or Naya Daur in colour.” Shailesh Tandon’s take on the issue is more than promising. A supplier to leading stores in Delhi and Mumbai, he says, “Business nowadays is all about innovations and branding. By enhancing the artwork by adding glitter or sequence or ‘gota’ to draw buyers fits in the new definition.” The demand for ‘newness’ has given birth to competition with the community as well which is essentially a must for anything to flourish. “Only quality is going to survive, everything else will slip into history,” says Upendra Singh of Gangotri, a government-owned store that works to promote chikan artwork. Quality comes at a price. But what’s interesting is that people are willing to spend money in lieu of designer or exclusive work. Artisans’ agony     Fingers that toil on ‘items’ (read garments to be embroidered) benefit marginally from the brisk business that keeps wholesellers in Chowk or retailers in Hazratganj busy most of the time.     Instead, the artisans are finding it hard to cope up with the demands of fashionable chikan garments. The reason: muslin was chosen for chikankari because the artwork involves a lot of shadow work, and coarser the cloth the more difficult it is to move the needle. “Despite the problems, wholesellers refuse to pay extra and as it is the payments are quite low,” rued Rashida who has been earning her living through chikankari for de cades now. The rate is fixed on the b a s i s of finesse of the needlework adjudged by the wholeseller. So, an artisan who finishes the work in a week and the one who takes a month’s time for the same, get the same payment. “Two individuals of a skill of the same level will not get differe n t amount f ro m t h e same e m - ployer,” claims Lucknow Chikan Handicrafts Association.     But the amount paid is still low. For instance, if Rs 15 has been paid for embroidering a small kurta top, the wholesale cost of the kurta would be around Rs 100, which the wholeseller would sell for a minimum of Rs 125. At the retailer’s end, the cost would be something around Rs 175-200. Poetry On Muslin Delicate Art This delicate form of embroidery is traditionally practised in and around the city of Lucknow Team Work The production of Chikan embroidery of Lucknow brings about an integrated effort of the artisans of embroidery as well as from its subsidiary activities Traders: Traders or manufacturers are the main force of the chikan industry. estimates shows that about 5,000 traders involved in the Lucknow city itself Embroiders: These hands are the heart and soul of the art. Once the printing of designs is over, the fabrics or dress materials are shifted to the chikan artisans. They are as many as 50,000 families involved in the craftwork. Majority of     these families are involved in the craftwork since generations and inherit the skill ancestrally. Wood block carvers: The designs of chikan are transferred to the fabric by means of carved woodblock Printers: The printers job is to transfer the designs carved in the woodblocks onto the cloth Tailors: Some specialised tailors are also used in the process. Once the stitching work is over, traders give it to the printers for printing different designs of the Lucknow chikan craft Washermen: They carry out the responsibility of refining the product and restoring the glaze of chikancraft Finger artists: The fine needlework of Lucknow is providing employment to about 2.5 lakh artisans in and around lucknow. Approximately 95% artisans are woman.     The number of associated workers (washermen, wood carvers etc) is estimated to be     around 10,000-15,000. Patent Power Chikankari was awarded Geographical Indication (GI) in 2009. (Source: Art and Artifacts of Lucknowi Chikankari, a report prepared by the textiles committee, Mumbai)
Food inflation rises a tad to 16.74% TIMES NEWS NETWORK New Delhi: Higher prices of fruits, pulses and milk pushed up food inflation marginally to 16.74% in the week ended May 29, marking the second consecutive week of its rise and prompting expectations of RBI tightening money supply at its policy meet next month.     Prices of pulses rose 31%, milk by over 21% and fruits by 18.7%. Consumer staples such as rice and wheat turned costlier by 7% and 3% respectively. Altogether, the increase in prices pushed up food inflation by 0.19 percentage points in the week under review from from 16.55% in the previous week. The only silver lining was that potatoes and onions eased by 30.87% and 12.27% respectively.     Analysts saw RBI taking more steps to control money supply in a bid to cool inflation.
Food inflation nears 17% on milk, pulses TIMES NEWS NETWORK New Delhi: Continuing its upward spiral, food inflation neared 17% at 16.9% in the week ended June 12 from 16.12% a week ago. The data comes a day ahead of a ministerial panel's meeting to decide on increasing fuel prices. The latest data on food prices reinforces the deepening impact on headline inflation, which has already topped 10%, and will weigh on the minds of the panel.     The main contributors of food inflation's rise are pulses and milk. Year-on-year, pulses turned dearer by 34.14%, while milk cost 21.12% more. However, prices of potato and onion were down by 37% and 22%, respectively. Food inflation has pushed core inflation into double digits in May, prompting speculation that the Reserve Bank would tighten monetary policy to temper consumer spending.     ‘‘Inflation rate has reached uncomfortable levels. Therefore, some action is called for. It is for the Reserve Bank to decide on the timing. But, some action is called for,'' PM's Economic Advisory Council chairman C Rangarajan had said earlier this week, setting off speculation that action could come before the Bank's July 27 scheduled policy review. FM Pranab Mukherjee too had dropped broad hints that there could be policy action by RBI, saying: ‘‘So far as the monetary part is concerned, the Reserve Bank will look into it.'' However, economists indicated no such immediate action was warranted as the index was almost unchanged.
Food inflation dips to 12.6%, fuel index up TIMES NEWS NETWORK New Delhi: Food inflation eased to 12.63% for the week ended June 26 but fuel inflation increased to over 18%, reflecting the government’s decision to raise prices of petrol, diesel, kerosene and cooking gas on June 25. Food inflation in the previous week ended June 19 was 12.92%.     Vegetable prices fell by over 4% year-on-year, led by a substantial decline in the prices of potato and onion. Potato became cheaper by over 42%, while onion by 8.75% on an annual basis. But the second straight weekly fall in food inflation is unlikely to bring much cheer to policy makers as the fuel price hike could push up by over 1 percentage point the headline inflation which is at present the highest among the G20 economies. The index will see another jump in its next reading, with the government having raised fuel prices from June 26.
My Sweet (Work) Load The pause and effect of shedding ministerial burdens     Tut tut. We aam janata have a very wrong idea of our netas. We disparage them for taking the PPP (portfolios-perksprivileges) route when on coalition course. Competitive berth pangs, we say, drive political careerists. And yet we’ve seen dramatic displays of tyaag, such as the one that catapulted the Congress boss to political sainthood. Well, renunciation’s still in fashion. In a humbler display, the agriculture minister wishes to farm out some of the amassed spoils of his multifaceted office: NCP’s chiefdom, ministries of agriculture, food & civil supplies and consumer affairs, plus an ICC presidency. As he suggests, after “44 years in Parliament” and “25-26 years in government”, why not off-load the Pawar and the glory?     True. What better time to shed the burden of managing food and civil supplies? Hasn’t inflation become a runaway bride, with onions, potatoes, milk and sugar chasing after? Aren’t opposition nosey-parkers raising hell about bhookh and mehengai? And won’t the ministerial load get heavier when the Congress chief’s new pet project takes off? If food security’s to be the poor’s entitlement, food insecurity can’t surely be staple for the man-in-charge. Food for thought and a quick exit, eh?     Besides, all work and no play makes Jack a dull mantri. Ex-cricketer Craig McDermott said sometime ago that fast bowlers should be used in short bursts during matches so they don’t burn out. This logic of recovery time applies to ministers as well. It’s unfair, then, to say the new but overloaded ICC prez will only work part-time. Especially since its politics he’d rather do in short bursts in order to be a full-time international khiladi. Luckily, UPA-II’s indulgent. The NCP chief’s not the only one to get a respite (from worrying about the price of spuds at sabzi mandis). Take the chemicals and fertilisers minister. He does long bursts – Maldives, here he comes! – of gallivanting. For, he’s overworked as well. What can be more back-breaking than organising resistance to reforms?     Or take Mamata, multitasking between the city of hoped-for electoral joy and the national capital. Is it surprising that the lady some call the “Union minister of Bengal” has no fascination for berths (unless they’re in trains) herself? When newly elected UPA-II had offered her a choice of ministries in 2009 as a valued ally, it’s said she’d grandly refused it all save the Railways. Today, she could bequeath even that sole gaddi to a nominee. Provided the Congress is game for a quit pro quo.     Isn’t there anyone who sings, my sweet load? Sure there is. Bring it on, these rare role-jugglers say. Like Pranab-da, once foreign minister, acting finance minister and even de facto prime minister when the PM was briefly indisposed. Nor does he lack a self-sacrificing spirit. Asked why the top job eludes him despite his CV and stamina, he was quoted saying PMs need fluency in Hindi! They don’t make diplomats like that anymore.     To conclude: our netas are noble. They don’t fear Pawar shortage or even short-change. Especially when it’s for a good pause...sorry, cause.
Food inflation up at 12.8% on supply delay TIMES NEWS NETWORK New Delhi: Food inflation rose to 12.81% for the week ended July 3 on the back of supply disruptions due to monsoon showers and high fuel costs but inflation for fuel and related items slid to 14.27% in the week from over 18% in the previous week on account of the base effect.     Food inflation was at 12.63% in the previous week and has been declining over the preceding two weeks. For the week under review, rice, wheat, pulses and onions became costlier in the range of 0.03-3.8% on a week-on-week basis as there was supply disruption due to flooding in parts of the country which impeded transportation. But potatoes became cheaper by 0.85% and fruits by 0.91%.     Analysts said the rise in food inflation was expected as the hike in fuel prices affected delivered price of vegetables and fruits. The fuel price hike will take time to be reflected fully in a few weeks. The new crop is also yet to come into the market. On Wednesday, FM Pranab Mukherjee had expressed the hope that inflation would ease after the Kharif season is over. The analysts expect prices to moderate by October when the new crop flows into market and the low base of last year is over.
In UP, 30% of food produce rots owing to lack of storage facilities Swati Mathur | TNN Lucknow: On one hand, there is crippling price rise, on the other, criminal wastage of foodgrains and other agricultural produce continues in Uttar Pradesh. Despite being an agrarian economy, the state government has done precious little to put its warehouse and cold storage mechanism in order. And with over 30% of produce — foodgrains, vegetables and fruits — rotting due to lack of proper storage facilities every year, it is little wonder that the ripple effect is being felt on rising prices of essential commodities.     According to government data, under the Rural Godown Scheme, UP, till March 2010, had a total of 917 rural godowns with a total storage capacity of 25.94 lakh tonnes. Of these, 174 new rural godowns, with consolidated storage capacity of 10.68 lakh metric tonnes, were added in the last two years. Compare this with the total arrival of agricultural produce in UP during 2008-09, pegged at a whopping 397.44 lakh metric tonnes, and the resultant gap is over 10 times the storage capacity. Interestingly, rough estimates reveal that 70% of UP’s total godown capacity is used in storing potatoes. The remaining produce, of course, is left to rot. Faculty, Lucknow University and president, Kisan Jagrati Manch, Sudhir Panwar said: ‘‘The government is gradually trying to shift its responsibility in setting up store houses and pass it on to private players. What we need is the setting up of models like Farmer Producer Companies that are running successfully in other states, staggered prices and better roads to connect warehouses to larger cities.’’     If foodgrains face the brunt of government apathy, fruits and vegetables are worse off, with fewer cold storages and warehouses. A Malihabad-based fruit farmer, Sarnam Singh says: ‘‘Even in Malihabad’s mango district, there is only one pack house for the fruit that is exported. Where nearly 2500 metric tonnes of mangoes are traded every day, the pack house can store only 20 metric tonnes a day. The remaining produce is dumped on roads, inside farms or rots during transit.’’     Similarly, vegetables also rot during transit as also after their arrival at Mandis set up by the state government at various locations. In Lucknow’s Dubagga area, which houses the largest fruit and vegetable market of the city, tonnes of fresh supply are wasted because of lack of proper storage. Onion trader at the mandi, Mohammed Irshad Wahab, said: ‘‘During rains, the situation worsens. Authorities don’t come to clean the mandi, and vegetables rot even faster when they come in contact with water. The extent of wastage is phenomenal. The authorities promised us an air conditioned market in which to sell, but that is still a distant dream.’’     Significantly, the Union government, while attempting to increase storage capacity of cold storages and warehouses, has proposed the public-private partnership models for expansion. Though several subsidy schemes have been floated through NABARD and other national banks, small farmers are unable to reap benefits because of small holdings. On an average, farmers only have 40% surplus on their farms.     Kumar adds: ‘‘While 80% of the surplus is tapped by private persons and companies who run warehouses and cold storages, the remaining 20% gets spoilt during transit.’’ Experts believe that the way forward is through setting up Farmer Producer Companies, models that are successfully operational in some other states.
THE LOST SUPPER As food prices spiral and politicians serve up empty promises, the common man is finding ingenious ways to make do Shreya Roy Chowdhury | TNN     If you believe the government, the dizzying rate of India’s GDP puts us in a select group of emerging economies. But if you look at the food on the aam admi’s table, it tells a different growth story — inflation. With this figure rising every week, people are cutting down on expenses — eating less and eating less healthy food. The poor are buying overripe vegetables and shifting from idlis to the cheaper rice gruel. The middle-class is cutting down on vegetables and milk. Restaurants are reducing portions and diluting curries. Rising prices are affecting us all — they are gnawing into household budgets and restaurant profits alike and people are using every trick in the book to manage this rise.     Sanjay Munjal of Ginger Moon restaurant in Delhi’s Khan Market says he has tightened controls, with “an audit every three days to assess our purchase, sales and consumption to prevent waste. Earlier we stocked up for two-three days, now we take daily stock”. This has helped, bringing Munjal’s costs down by 5-10%. “The inflation has affected our margins but we’ve decided to absorb it for now. But if the prices rise any further — say another 5-10% — we’ll have to increase rates,” says Munjal.     Sooner or later, that’s what may happen. “Although we have contracted yearly prices, pressure is coming from vendors to revise rates,” says Monish Gujral of Moti Mahal Delux in Delhi. Restaurants like his have increased “menu forecasting”, which means determining attendance, portions and items that’ll be ordered. They are also increasingly half-cooking dishes in order to prevent waste. But some restaurants have been forced to raise prices straight off. Santhosh Shetty, who runs Vaibhav Hotel in Andheri, Mumbai, admits they charge extra for dal with the regular thali. “I started doing this when I realized dal alone takes 25% of the cost,” he says.     Munjal’s Ginger Moon, Gujral’s Moti Mahal and Shetty’s Vaibhav are not the only ones. Food price inflation has put eateries across the country under tremendous pressure. And it is changing the way people eat out. Deepak Sharma, former secretary-general, Federation of Hotel & Restaurant Associations of India, says “Restaurants have taken items off, offering limited, cost-effective menus; a few have even reduced their portions. Some have also revised their menus.”     He adds, “The cost of running restaurants has gone up but sales have decreased by 15-20%.”     Meanwhile, restaurants in Delhi have had to factor in something else as well. “Mid-level ones need to upgrade for the Commonwealth Games — that’s another investment,” says Sharma, “If they increase prices now, sales will decrease further.”     Some have already made their decision. The single-chicken, single-egg roll kathi kabab at Nizam Kathi Kabab in Delhi is Rs 100 for just a few more days. Soon, it will cost Rs 110. Nizam’s mutton korma, which was priced at Rs 170, will go up to Rs 200. “We were functioning almost on a no-profit-no-loss basis. We will raise the prices by about 10% in the next 15 days,” says Ved Prakash of Nizam.     No one is sure whether that will help. Mumbai restaurants that have already raised prices — by about 15% in the last few months — say they’re still struggling. “Our profit margins have come down by almost 40%,” says Chandrahas Shetty, president of the Federation of Hotel Owners Association of Maharashtra. “Food inflation is hitting the restaurants hard,” says Sharma. Tomatoes, onions and potatoes are important ingredients for restaurants. “Increase in their prices affects eateries,” he says. “Salads were also important for the restaurant industry as there were large profit margins on them. But now that has decreased.”     Raising prices is particularly difficult for outlets like heavily subsidized college canteens. “We need to write to the committee to hike our prices,” says Gaganjeet Singh of the Hindu College canteen in Delhi University. It’s worse for Dharmendra Kumar who sells chhole-bhature in Mayur Vihar. He charges Rs 10 for two bhaturas. He’s in no position to raise his prices because his customers anyway think he should be providing three bhaturas instead of two. “Price of cooking gas has increased and I need six-seven cylinders in a month. I’d keep Rs 150-200 as pocket money, now I make do with Rs 50 a month,” he says. Street vendors in Mumbai have seen their narrow profit margins falling. Murugan S, who runs a food stall near Borivali station, says, “We’ve been diluting the sambhar with water and replacing it with coconut chutney every alternate day.” It is an unpopular move because his clients demand free sambhar.     Eating out may be getting difficult for the aam admi. But so is eating in. For most middle-class and working-class families, inflation simply means less of everything. “In the homes I work, they use one tomato where they previously used two; cook 250 gms of paneer instead of a half-kilo,” says Radha Dalal, 37, who cooks in nine homes in South Delhi. She has cut back herself by no longer buying milk.     It is a curse to be dirt poor in the time of inflation. Saraswathi, 60, says she hasn’t had three square meals a single day in six months. She sells coconuts outside Chennai’s Kapaleeswarar temple and earns Rs 1,500 a month. Rising prices has caused her to forego meals to feed the men and children while she and her daughter-in-law eat rice gruel to get by. “We have kanji (gruel) in the morning. Earlier, we used to have idlis or dosas. For lunch, I use less dal for sambhar and no vegetables. Because a cylinder costs Rs 315, I cook once a day,” she says.     As food bills spiral out of control, the poor are falling into the debt trap. Valli, 40, a domestic help in Chennai earns Rs 3,000 a month and owes Rs 3 lakh to the local moneylender. Now, she buys rice from fair price shops and vegetables from vendors selling supermarket rejects. “I buy four tomatoes for Rs 10. One is usually spoilt but it is a good bargain,” says Valli. It is better than going back to the moneylender.     (With reports from Kim Arora in Delhi, Viju B in Mumbai and Revathi Ramanan in Chennai)
BREATHER FOR GOVT Food inflation in single digits TIMES NEWS NETWORK New Delhi: For the first time this year, food inflation shrunk to single digit at less than 10% in the week ended July 17, providing the government a much-needed shield to ward off concentrated Opposition attack in and outside Parliament over rising food and fuel prices.     Continuing its downtrend for the second week in a row, the index slid 2.8 percentage points in the week under review from 12.47% in the preceding week. If the trend continues, it will also help headline inflation to cool and ease pressure on further tightening of key rates.     The latest slide, greatly due to high base affect, has been driven by falling prices of vegetables, especially potato and onion. This is the first time food inflation has come down to single digit since the government started giving separate figures for primary articles in November 2009.     ‘‘It is a very welcome news. Inflation has moved pretty much on cues as I had expected. It feels good. However, it should not be overinterpreted,'' the government's chief economic adviser Kaushik Basu said. Basu's caution is not misplaced. Thursday's data still shows pulses, milk and fruits becoming costlier by 21.23%, 19% and 12.14%, respectively, from a year-ago period.     The government has been under sustained attack from the Opposition parties, particulalry the BJP, for failing to check rising food prices. The NDA had even called a nationwide shutdown on July 5 which saw right wing BJP and the Left parties coming together on the issue. The Opposition also stalled Parliament over the issue, leading to adjournment of the proceedings in both the Houses.
Seeds & grafts: Farmers fleeced at Govt shops Price Of Seeds Inflated By 500 Times Swati Mathur | TNN Lucknow: Anomalies in the sale of certified seeds in Uttar Pradesh are touching new lows.     A survey of NREGS implementation in Kanpur Dehat, conducted by member, state quality monitor, Vinod Shankar Chaubey, has brought to light largescale irregularities in the distribution and sale of certified seeds to beneficiaries of NREGS. While seeds have not been distributed at all in some cases, in others, costs have been inflated to over 500 times the prescribed rates.     Significantly, in 2007, an amendment to National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme, provided that Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes, BPL families and beneficiaries of Indira Awas Yojana would be provided irrigation facilities, horticulture plantations and land development facilities under NREGS. This included a provision for distribution of certified seeds, fertilisers and agriculture implements. But despite these provisions, the norms were openly flouted.     Secretary, department of rural development, Manoj Kumar Singh, said: ‘‘Yes, we have taken cognizance of these anomalies.     In most cases, instances of seeds being sold at inflated rates have been found. Action has been initiated.’’ Inflation rates, in this case, are no mean numbers. Coriander seeds, which should be sold at a prescribed rate of Rs 80 per kg, were sold at a whopping Rs 584 — at a straight 500% profit. In other cases, hybrid onion was sold at Rs 17,500 instead of Rs 1,200, tomatoes at Rs 30,600 instead of Rs 27,500, hybrid chillies at Rs 30,600 instead of Rs 30,000 and lady finger seeds at Rs 1,445 instead of the prescribed rate of Rs 1,420 per kg. ANOMALIES GALORE Coriander seeds, which should be sold at a prescribed rate of Rs 80 per kg, were sold at a whopping Rs 584 — at a straight 500% profit. In other cases Hybrid onion was sold at Rs 17,500 instead of Rs 1,200 Tomatoes at Rs 30,600 instead of Rs 27,500 Hybrid chillies at Rs 30,600 instead of Rs 30,000 Lady finger seeds at Rs 1,445 instead of the prescribed rate of Rs 1,420 per kg Anomalies in sale of certified seeds in Uttar Pradesh Lucknow: Anomalies in the sale of certified seeds in Uttar Pradesh are touching new lows. If local government officials were staking claim to the Rs 36.36 lakh thus generated, Uttaranchal Seeds and Tarai Development Corporation Ltd, the semi-government body and foremost name in production, testing and sale of certified seeds in the state, also played a significant role in the transactions.     But if there were complaints of costly seeds, there were also instances where seeds, pesticides or fertilisers were never distributed. In just one such instance, in village Mahona, Shankar Dayal, a Scheduled Caste farmer received his NREGS payment of Rs 1,400 but was not given any seeds, pesticides or agricultural implements. Even though NREGS prescribes that farmers must be provided seeds of crops they wish to sow, no such survey was conducted. While some seeds were of poor quality and could not germinate, many farmers were distributed seeds, even when they did not have appropriate land holdings and irrigation facilities to carry out vegetable plantation.     Interestingly, while irregularities affected the fortunes of nearly 12,500 marginal farmers, PCS and IAS officials found guilty in the preliminary inquiry have neither been punished, nor has the process of punitive action been initiated. Member, Central Employment Guarantee Council, Sanjay Dixit said: ‘‘Disciplinary action was initiated only against CDOs, BDOs and other field level officials. Senior officials of UP government who were implicated were only transferred, and that, mostly to plum postings.’’     Following a request by Amita Sharma, joint secretary, Ministry of Rural Development, GoI, to take action, M K Singh, on August 25, released an Action Taken Report on the complaints made by Dixit. In relation to instances of centralised purchase of items like seed, benches and irregularity in release of funds to NGOs in Kanpur Dehat, Singh, in his letter said: ‘‘The matter requires further inquiry. Action taken report is not received from appointment department, so reminder is being sent.’’ The same was also said with reference to the department of horticulture.
Food inflation rises to 10.86% TIMES NEWS NETWORK New Delhi: After declining for two weeks in a row, food inflation increased marginally to 10.86% in the week ended August 31 on the back of rising prices of cereals, fruits and milk. Food inflation was a tad over 10% during the previous week, while it had stood at 14.86% a year ago.     The rise in food inflation came about despite a decline in the prices of vegetables, especially onion and potato. Analysts say the food inflation will stabilise in the next few months and may decline to single-digit level, essentially on account of expectations of good monsoon and kharif crop.     The RBI is expected to continue on the path of a tight monetary policy and is likely to use marginal rise in key rates in conjuction with measures to keep liquidity in the financial system in check. The central bank had raised key policy rates thrice in the recent past to check inflation.     Overall inflation based on wholesale prices had declined to single digit in July at 9.97%, after being in double digits for five months.     According to Crisil chief economist D K Joshi, food prices will see minor ups and downs for a few weeks before settling into single-digit level in the last quarter as markets start getting fresh farm supplies.
Who’s Afraid Of Price Rise To assume that people are willing to live with higher inflation will be a serious mistake Deepak Nayyar     Inflation is in the news. Double-digit inflation persists, concentrated in prices of food and necessities. The retail prices of pulses are in the range of Rs 80-100 per kg. Seasonal vegetables retail at Rs 30-40 per kg. Yet, our pink newspapers believe there is little reason for concern. There is a boom in purchases of consumer durables. The middle class is prospering. The poor are better-off with the NREGA. And people are no longer afraid of inflation. Such a worldview is, to say the least, misleading. It needs a reality check.     The woman in the household or the man in the street is not persuaded by statistics on rates of inflation. In the mind of the citizen, there is a 'price perception index' which is based on prices paid. And even when inflation comes down, prices paid are higher. This price perception index has two dimensions. The first is that the consumer is concerned about the proportionate increase in prices over a period of time. Between June 2007 and June 2010, the consumer price index for industrial workers increased by 35 per cent, while the wholesale price index for food articles also rose by 35 per cent. Thus, what cost Rs 100 three years ago now costs Rs 135.     The second is that the consumer is worried about the increase in the price level in relation to his money income. Between June 2007 and June 2010, consumer prices for cereals, pulses, vegetable oils, meat, eggs and fish, milk, spices, vegetables and fruits increased by 30 to 50 per cent. For a large number of people, money incomes did not increase anywhere near as much.     The social and political threshold of tolerance for inflation in India has always been low, because a large proportion of the population is poor and an even larger proportion does not have index-linked incomes. People are afraid of inflation because it erodes their consumption of food and necessities. Governments are sensitive to inflation because elections have been lost on the price of onions. Indeed, in the past, persistent double-digit inflation was simply unacceptable to people and to governments. This time around, there are no visible signs of anger among the people, just as there are no obvious signs of anxiety in the government. Why?     Silence on the part of people is a puzzle. There are no obvious answers that are convincing. But there are some plausible explanations. For the rich, small in number and large in influence, food is such a negligible part of their expenditure that food prices do not matter. For the middle class in the private sector, beneficiaries of rapid economic growth, incomes have increased significantly more than prices and expenditure on food as a proportion of their household budgets has come down.     For the middle class in the government sector, following the Sixth Pay Commission, a bonanza of much higher salaries indexed even better with prices and combined with substantial arrears paid, meant that their purchasing power increased considerably more than prices. In the past, whenever there was double-digit inflation, it was these two segments of the middle class with a voice that organised protest and shaped opinion.     For the poor, making ends meet to simply provide food for their families is such a struggle that they have no time to protest. Committees and scholars are engaged in an unending debate about the proportion of the population who live below the poverty line. But the government now accepts that this proportion is 38 per cent and could be as much as 50 per cent. Therefore, at least 450 million, possibly 600 million, people live in poverty. The poor are hurt by inflation, particularly in food prices. Their silence does not mean acceptance. It is just that they do not have a voice.     The reality of inflation is recognised by the government. But its concern for the aam aadmi has not led it to address the problem as a priority. Once again, there are some plausible explanations. For one, the UPA won a general election in May 2009 despite inflation. For another, opposition parties, fragmented and in disarray, seem incapable of mobilising support on the issue.     Most important, perhaps, the government does not quite know what to do. Some hope that inflation will come down in six months, but relying on statistics or words is not enough. Some assert that inflation is the price of growth, even if those who lose from inflation are not those who gain from growth. Some believe that raising interest rates and tightening credit would help combat inflation, without recognising that this inflation is attributable to supply-demand imbalances rather than excess liquidity; if the diagnosis is wrong the prescription cannot work.     It would be a serious mistake for the government to conclude that people are now willing to live with higher inflation or that their tolerance is greater than before. Persistent inflation, particularly in food, hurts the poor. Slowly but surely, resentment mounts. The number of people affected could be as much as half our population. Even if they do not have purchasing power in a market economy, come election time, they do exercise their right to vote in a political democracy. In the political process, inflation is more like a treadmill than a time-bomb.     The writer is professor of economics, JNU.
Food inflation tops 15% on new base year TIMES NEWS NETWORK New Delhi: On a day the RBI raised key lending and borrowing rates to ease inflationary pressures, food inflation topped 15% in the week ended September 4 as prices of creals and lentils rose on the back of rains disrupting supply chains in many parts of the country. The new baseline for the wholesale price index also contributed to the rise in the index of food items.     Data released on Thursday showed this is the third week in a row that food inflation has shown an uptrend after a brief period of moderation in July and first half of August. As per the new baseline, food inflation had stood at 14.64% in the corresponding week last year. The index had stood at 11.47%, calculated as per the old baseline, in the last week of August. The new baseline using 2004-05 as the benchmark assigns different weightage to items.     On an annual basis, cereal prices rose by 7.16% driven mainly by higher prices of pulses, rice and wheat, compared to the same period last year. While lentils became dearer by over 6%, prices of rice and wheat rose by 5.74% and 10.16%, respectively, during the week under review.     Among other food items, milk prices rose 23.41% during the week compared to the same period last year, while that of fruits went up by 8.27%. Vegetables also became dearer by 3.82% on an annual basis, while potato and onion became cheaper by 45.92% and 4.17%, respectively.
P R I C E o n r i s e Situation Worsens: Dal-Roti Khao For Now Veggie Prices Pinch Floods have disrupted supply of vegetables, which has triggered a crisis. The price of vegetables has gone up by 35-40% in last fortnight. Worse is, situation is here to stay, reports Shailvee Sharda Lucknow: If rising price of vegetables is bothering you, it’s time to compromise with the situation. The logic for this comes from the neoclassical theories of economics that say that rise in demand and fall in supply escalates cost of a commodity.     But mind you, do not blame the ‘sabjiwala bhaiya’ for upsetting the kitchen’s budget. Mother nature instead is at fault. Floods in western and eastern parts of the state have disrupted the supply of vegetables to cities in central UP. And this has triggered the crisis at source, which is the wholesale markets.     As per estimates made by UP vegetable and fruits sellers and growers association, 80% of Lucknow’s supply of fruits and vegetables comes from the vegetable mandi on Sitapur Road. And here, prices have gone up by at least 20% in the last one week. So by the time vegetables reach your colony through the vendors, another 20% cost goes up.     So while green capsicum and cauliflower have joined cottage cheese (half kilo costing Rs 80) in the ‘luxury’ segment, popular ladyfinger is putting the housewives’ mood off. ‘‘A family of four needs at least half a kilo of ladyfinger for a single meal. It costed something around Rs 16 per kg ten days ago and now the same quantity is available for at least Rs 24,’’ said Anita Verma who works as a cook in several houses of Kaiserbagh. Price of basic vegetables     like potato, onion and capsicum has also gone up. The per kilo price of potato rose from Rs 8 to 10 in the last fortnight while the older stock is touching Rs 25 against the usual price of Rs 20. Onions on the other hand took a leap from Rs 14 to Rs 20 and cost of tomatoes almost doubled (from Rs 20 to Rs 38).     Vegetables are a perishable commodity. Barring onions and potatoes, the shelf life of most is around 3-4 days if kept very properly in the refrigerators. So, storing them in bulk is not really feasible. ‘‘There is a great difference in quality of fresh vegetables and the ones stored in the fridge. I think I am left with no option but for making aloo-pyaz today and pyaz-aloo tomorrow,’’ said Ankita Siddhart, a housewife living in Hazratganj area. Professional, Anish Kumar who is fond of nonveg food even in the routine course but has to control because of his wife is, however, happy about the escalating price of vegetables. ‘‘Now, I have a valid reason to ask her to switch over. Per meal cost for our family of four would be same — be it veg or nonveg,’’ he reasons.
Food inflation falls to 12.3%, lowest in a year Decline In Food Prices Slow | High Commodity Prices Pose Challenge For Cos TIMES NEWS NETWORK New Delhi: The index for food prices declined to 12.3% in the last week of October 30—its lowest in a year, sliding for the fourth consecutive week. However, finance minister Pranab Mukherjee said the cooling process of food inflation remained slow and hoped that the trend will pick up space.     The slide in food inflation was slowed down by high onion prices in the wake of excessive rain damaging crops in parts of Maharashtra. Hence, it wasn’t a surprise that the PM’s Economic Advisory Council chairman C Rangarajan blamed supply shortage in general and poor production for high prices.     Inflation was 12.59% this time last year. The slow decline can be gauged from the fact that despite such a high base, the index fell to just 12.3%, while it stood at 12.85% in the preceding week. While most food items such as wheat, pulses and potatoes turned cheaper, onions became costlier by about 10% within a week. Fuel inflation stayed at 10.67% in spite of a 0.35% rise in petrol prices during the week. Economists do not see food inflation falling to single digit immediately. The fall in inflation will have an impact on October wholesale price figures.     The government expects inflation to fall to 6% by the year-end. If that happens, the RBI may press the pause button on hiking key rates, something it hinted at in its monetary review earlier this month. Crude prices at 25-month high London: Oil climbed to 25-month high, above $88 a barrel, on Thursday after strong industrial ouptut boosted Chinese demand to a record high and fuel stocks in the US fell sharply. US crude for December rose to $88.32 a barrel after touching $88.55, its highest since October 2008. Brent rose to $89.30 after touching more than a two-year high earlier. REUTERS
Food inflation at 18-month low of 8.6% TIMES NEWS NETWORK NewDelhi:The index for food prices came down to a single digit after four months, dipping to an 18-month low of 8.6% in the week ended November 20. The decline came about on arrival of winter crops in the market but onions, fruits and milk became costlier. Food inflation was at this level last in May 2009.     Food inflation, which has been going down for seven weeks in a row, stood at 10.15% for the week ended November 13. It had recorded single-digit level in the week ended July 24 at 9.53%.     The decline is expected to ease pressure on headline inflation, which stood at 8.58% in October, allowing the Reserve Bank some breathing space in its next monetary policy review.
City feels onion sting as prices touch 60/kg TIMES NEWS NETWORK Lucknow/New Delhi: Onions are set to become another hot potato for the government. The wholesale market in Lucknow reporting a daily shortfall of 35% due to damaged crops, retail prices have within a few days more than doubled to Rs 60 per kg, making the poor man’s food out of reach for even the middle classes. Even in the wholesale market, the price has jumped from Rs 22 to 46 a kg.     After the onion crop in Maharashtra and Rajasthan suffered due to heavy monsoon rains lasting till late in the season, north India was banking heavily on the back-up stock to meet its demand. Prices, which had been rising steadily since July, started settling towards the end of November. But in a shocker of sorts, farmers found that even the backup crop had rotted in the fields, causing a huge shortfall in the markets in Lucknow and surrounding areas. For the national capital, the pinch is even sharper with the price hovering around Rs 80 per kg. In what could dampen the New Year spirit for most north Indian households, where onion is a basic ingredient in cooking, the situation may get worse before getting better. Wholesale traders said Lucknowites can expect prices to cross the Rs 80 mark within the next few days. Prices may come down after a fortnight when the new stock from Maharashtra starts coming in.     Union commerce minister Anand Sharma blamed big traders for the situation. BULBS COST A BOMB ONION PRICES IN LUCKNOW (RETAIL /kg) June ’10 11 Early Nov 26 Dec 20 60-65 WHY THE PRICE HIKE Crops hit by heavy rains in Maha, Gujarat, southern states Exports to Gulf, Sri Lanka and Bangladesh also impacted supply Govt blames hoarders, says stocks adequate MANDI UPDATE Supply down almost 35% in Lucknow mandis WHAT’S NEXT? Crisis likely to last another 15 days till fresh produce arrives from Nashik, Neemach & Gujarat Exports suspended till January 15     Aworried government on Monday decided to suspend onion exports till January 15 in the wake of skyrocketing prices of the commodity which is selling between Rs 60-70 a kg. ‘Price rise because of hoarding’     “The price rise is because of hoarding. There is enough stock of onion in the country,’’ he said. The minister said the government had more than doubled the minimum export price of onions to $1,200 per tonne to rein in domestic prices. ‘‘We will make exports prohibitive till the domestic situation improves,’’ he said.     Satish Sonkar, president, UP Vegetable Wholesale Sellers’ Association, said there were indications of an impending price rise for the past 15 days. ‘‘This was mainly because of the shortfall in the production,’’ he said. Sonkar said the trend was likely to continue through January.     The rise is also attributed to sudden increase in local demand because of the ongoing wedding season.     But that is not the only reason. Wholesalers say the retailers too are cashing in on the situation on grounds of shortage which is more of a self created situation by them. Wholesalers are confident that the situation will improve by the new year.     The prices of onions have escalated because their local produce was yet to reach the wholesale markets and the existing demand was being met with stocks being transported in from Ghazipur in UP and Haldwani in Uttarakhand.     The transportation charges have added to the actual prices, leaving people to feel the pinch, wholesalers said here.     Besides onions, a sudden spurt in other vegetable prices have further disturbed the family budget.     Tomato, which was Rs 15 per kg a week back, is now selling at 18 per kg in the wholesale market. Cauliflower has become dearer by Rs 200 per 100 pieces in the wholesale market. A week back it was selling at Rs 300 per 100 pieces while on Monday, the prices went up to Rs 500 per 100 pieces. Prices not likely to fall before new year Lucknow: The price rise, particularly of tomato and onion, is expected to continue till the new year, said president of Uttar Pradesh Fruit and Vegetable Wholesalers Association, Satish Sonkar. This is because the local produce will hit the market by the first week of January. And until that happens, it’s unlikely that the prices will come down.     Attributing the rise to poor yield of vegetables due to floods in the terai belt - the main producer of vegetables for Lucknow and adjoining region - Satish said any surplus production resulting in price fall was unlikely.     “On top of this, almost everything has become expensive, be it the seeds, fuel for pump sets and manpower. The small-scale growers had no option but to increase the prices,” he said. The truth is not far to seek. “Why would anyone grow vegetables when the threat of floods, drought and other natural calamities looms over petty and marginal farmers with no assistance from authorities.     In such a situation, it would be better to go in for MNREGA as it at least assures 90 days of earning at the rate of Rs 100 per day,” said Bhikha, a petty farmer from Chandan village on the outskirts of Uttar Pradesh. KNOW YOUR ONIONS India consumes on average 40 lakh tonnes of onions a year. Delhi alone gorges on 3,000 tonnes daily 2nd largest onion producer in the world after China Around 30% of the country’s crop is produced in Maharashtra Nashik alone contributes 35 to 40% of the state’s production Other onion producing districts of Maharashtra are Pune, Ahmednagar, Satara, Sholapur and Dhulia BANKING ON PAK BAILOUT October 23, 2005: Pakistanis sent a train loaded with 30 tonnes of onions to Amritsar to ease an onion crisis in India. Our neighbours sent us a total of 2,000 tonnes. These onions were sold at subsidized rates POLITICOS CAN CRY With its capacity for bringing down governments and marring political careers, the onion plays an explosive role in Indian politics ‘MNREGS behind escalating prices’     According to the wholesalers of the fruit and vegetable market in Lucknow, MNREGS is also responsible for the recent price hike. “The labourers who were available for Rs 45 per day, now demand Rs 100. Where will this additional Rs 55 will come from? Obviously not from the pockets of the poor farmers,” said Neeraj Sonkar, a resident of Kaiserbagh who deals in wholesale supply of vegetables. TNN
Onion Rings Combat price rise with reform     The price of onions has often made aam aadmi cry. Ditto for governments, especially at polltime. So, the UPA will worry that retail prices have in recent days exceeded Rs 50 a kg in most regions, hitting Rs 80 in Delhi and other cities. The trigger was beyond anyone’s control: crop damage in Maharashtra and other places courtesy heavy rains. But, as UPA ministers say, hoarding may have done its bit in contributing to the price spiral. Steps taken so far include an exports ban, which has had some impact, and a minimum export price hike where no-objections were issued. Cutting import duty can also help traders – already importing from Pakistan – to access varied suppliers. Above all, disturbing allegations that hoarding in some onion-producing states have officialdom’s blessings demand probing and, if needed, tough punitive action.     The fact is that food inflation remains sticky, even as the UPA talks of spurring farm productivity and food security. That’s a reminder of the need for structural changes to better combat periodic crises, whatever their cause. Our farm-to-fork supply chain is poorly integrated and short on facilities. Reform is required for organised retail’s expansion, benefiting farmers and consumers while creating jobs and infrastructure, especially in storage and distribution. It’s scandalous that prices frequently soar while farm produce rots for lack of infrastructure. Price volatility issues equally from deficient post-harvest marketing networks and rules denying farmers direct sales avenues. Given India’s size, a seamless, private initiative-friendly market – unencumbered by multiplication whether of taxes, entry barriers, intermediaries or monopolies like those of state-supported agricultural produce market committees – is needed. Commodities must move easily, especially during emergencies from surplus to deficit areas. With agriculture’s modernisation boosting farm incomes, there’ll be less need for palliatives like ever-climbing support prices, another prop for high food inflation.
Pak onions may save the dinner Yudhvir Rana | TNN Amritsar: Delhi and other northern states are getting help from Pakistan to bring the zing back to their curries with about 350 tonnes of onions landing at Attari border on Tuesday. Pakistani onions are priced at Rs 19 per kg but there is no predicting their retail prices.     On Monday evening, 14 trucks carrying at least 140 tonnes of the pungent tuber from Pa k i s t a n crossed over to India. Though the landed cost of onions, after paying import and customs duty, comes to Rs 20/kg, the benefit is yet to be pass on to customers even in Amritsar a few kilometers from the border.     Deputy commissioner land custom station Attari, RK Duggal told TOI that at least 35 more truckloads of onions crossed over on Tuesday.     Managing director of Narayan Exim Rajdeep Uppal said with the import of onions from Pakistan, the panic in the market would subside and by Wednesday imported onions would hit retail outlets. He said Pakistani onions would feed Punjab, Haryana and Delhi. But sources in the industry said the benefit could be marginal. If it was being sold for Rs 55/kg it could come down by Rs 5/kg and the benefit would be kept by wholesale traders or retailers, s a i d sources. H ow - ever, the onion crisis has b ro u g h t cheer to about 1,500 porters at Attari border. A porter union leader Balkar Singh said for past two days there was heavy demand of porters due to extra import of vegetables from Pakistan. ‘‘We don’t eat onions these days due to its soaring price, but we are happy to get some extra income,’’ he said. A Pakistani truck driver Ab Dastur said with the onion crisis in India a lot of people, especially porters, have got lots of work in Pakistan too. ‘‘Khuda ki kasam bahut kush hai ham India ko pyaz de kar,’’ he said.
Now, garlic goes the onion way Pervez Iqbal Siddiqui | TNN Lucknow: Even as the Centre struggles with onion prices, a strike by garlic growers in UP against unrestricted heavy inflow of smuggled Chinese garlic has pushed prices of the white bulb to an unprecedented high of Rs 300 per kg. Last season, the price remained between Rs 30 to Rs 40 in the corresponding period.     The garlic growers have refused to sell their produce in the wholesale market till the smuggling of Chinese garlic was plugged completely. As a result of the strike, garlic worth an estimated Rs 85 crore is lying stacked at godowns of Mainpuri alone.     The market has closed for business ever since the strike was called from Sunday morning onwards. With the striking garlic growers apparently in no mood to relent, the prices are feared to rise steadily every passing day.     Imports from China have stopped after the government imposed a ban two years ago due to a disease in the Chinese garlic according to a National Horticultural Research and Development Foundation (NHRDF) report. Smuggling of garlic in state no secret     Chinese garlic was also banned under the provisions of foreign trade arrangements for different commodities stated in the EXIM Policy of 2004-2009 covered under the Foreign Trade (Development and Regulation) Act, 1992, said a senior officer of the state horticulture department.     Uttar Pradesh happens to be one of the largest grower of garlic in the region. Meanwhile India, which had to rely on imports to meet the domestic demand till 2002, is not only producing at par with China, the top garlic supplier to the global market since 2008-09, but going into exports as well.     President of Lahsun Vyapari Ahardati Sangh (Mainpuri) Shivraj Kumar Shakya said that around 80 tons of garlic was piling up per day at Ghirore Market and another 60 tons daily at Kurawali market since Sunday. The biggest wholesale garlic market of UP, Kurawali Mandi records a daily trade of around Rs 25 crore. This season the market opened at Rs 22,000 per quintal but witnessed a steep decline since December 10. “By December 16, the prices came down to Rs 16,000-Rs 18,000 slab as a result of smuggled garlic reaching the market.     Smuggling of garlic is no secret in Uttar Pradesh ever since an organised racket of smuggling Chinese garlic into UP via Nepal was exposed in August 2007 when the Sashastra Seema Bal (SSB) seized a haul near Kala Pul in Pilibhit on Indo-Nepal border. The seizure was made by the 26 battalion of SSB following an intelligence tipoff, the then DIG SSB (Lucknow sector) Anil Agarwal had told TOI. A total of 165 quintal of garlic bulbs loaded on a truck and a tractor-trolley were seized, which was subsequently handed over to the Central customs and excise department.     Sources in the SSB, quoting the interrogation report of the accused, said that the variety of the smuggled garlic was though bigger, whiter and its bulbs without skin, but it was barely half as rich in content as compared to the Indian variety and would cost onethird of it even after including the transportation cost.
Pawar says price of onion won’t dip for 3 more wks, PM worried TIMES NEWS NETWORK New Delhi: With onion getting unaffordable, Prime Minister Manmohan Singh has written to agriculture minister Sharad Pawar calling for day-to-day monitoring of onion prices and action to control the rising retail cost of the aam aadmi’s stock vegetable even as Pawar indicated it might be two-three weeks before prices cooled.     The PM’s intervention came after prices more than doubled in some markets in a week taking the government by surprise while consumers were left gasping. Taking quick note of high onion prices and their adverse political fallout in the wake of hikes in petrol and milk prices, Singh has asked “concerned ministries” to act swiftly. Pawar, however, was not hopeful of any immediate relief, saying, “Onion prices will remain high for the next two-three weeks and the situation is likely to improve only after that.” Pak onions may save curry dinner     Delhi and other northern states are getting help from Pakistan to bring the zing back to their curries with about 350 tonnes of onions landing at Attari border on Tuesday. Pakistani onions are priced at Rs 19 per kg but there is no predicting their retail prices. P 9 Hoarders behind soaring prices     Sharad Pawar’s timeline seems linked to the expected fresh arrivals of onions in the market from states like Maharashtra and Rajasthan where crops are maturing.     The agriculture and food minister, who has been accused of talking up prices in the past by the Opposition, indicated that consumers would have to live with the high price of onions while pointing to steps like suspension of exports till January 15 and more than doubling of minimum export price to $1,200 a tonne from $525 a tonne.     Wholesale price in major markets of Nashik did decline by up to 33% mainly due to the ban on exports announced by the commerce ministry on Monday but this was yet to impact retail rates.     Pawar said heavy rains in Nashik had damaged a substantial portion of the crop. The estimated damage, said officials, was around 40%. The Rajasthan crop now expected to reach the market in a few weeks had been resown as the first was almost entirely lost.     Officials said while the shortfall in production was the primary reason for price rise, hoarding was the other as traders controlled the stock in cold storages and were releasing it at large profits. The irony was that farmers in Nashik and elsewhere would have got only Rs 20-22 a kg for the onions now being sold in cities between Rs 65-85 a kg, with middlemen and traders making huge profits.     While UPA has projected itself as pro-farmer and its leaders have argued that the “consuming classes” need to put with some retail price hikes as the renumerative prices for farmers had to be raised to encourage productivity, in this case, the producers were unlikely to see even a rupee in enhanced earnings.This would not change much when the fresh crop arrives at the markets as it would immediately depress prices and in all probablity, farmers would not get much more than what they had got earlier. The gap between farmgate and retail price has worried leaders like finance minister Pranab Mukherjee who have commented on this but in the current shortage, it will be the consumer who pays.
S N A P J U D G M E N T
E D I T PAG E M A I L B OX MY TIMES MY VOICE The price of onions With reference to the editorial ‘Onion Rings’ (Dec 22), while skyrocketing onion prices have made the common man shed tears both literally and figuratively, the situation once again exposes Sharad Pawar’s inept handling of the agriculture ministry. It clearly points to the absence of any effective mechanism to monitor and handle price volatility caused by natural vagaries. Further, the government wakes up and swings into action only when the situation erupts into a major crisis. For a nation that has made significant strides in information technology and achieved remarkable economic growth, inefficient management and distribution of commodities reflect poorly on India’s image.     P P Sethumadhavan, VIA EMAIL Reinvent Congress With reference to the Second Opinion ‘Family business’ (Dec 22) by Jug Suraiya, the Congress’s continued reliance on eulogising the contributions of one family now appears outmoded. The party should instead look forward and carve out a distinct niche for itself, keeping in tune with the changing times. People no longer get swayed by the past achievements of charismatic leaders. They expect political parties to address their day-to-day issues. Any regime that delivers on governance will win people’s support. The time has come for the Congress to make an attempt to move out of its comfort zone and reinvent itself.     M V Krishna, BANGALORE
Duties go, PSUs to import onions TIMES NEWS NETWORK New Delhi: Onions seemed to be the prime focus for the government on Wednesday, with several agencies stepping in to increase supply in an attempt to tame prices.     Though the government stepped into damage-control mode on Monday, the impact has not been visible so far with prices in parts of Delhi hovering around Rs 80 a kg. The consumer affairs department, however, said the retail price of onion was Rs 64 a kg in Delhi, while the highest price was recorded in Tiruchirapalli, where the commodity was selling for Rs 75 a kg. The all-India average was just short of Rs 50 a kg, the department claimed.     Within hours of doing away with import duty on the key food ingredient, the commerce ministry asked three public sector companies — MMTC, State Trading Corporation and Projects Export Corporation — to import onions. “We need to import onions fast, we cannot wait for weeks for the imports to take place,” commerce secretary Rahul Khullar said at a hurriedly-convened press conference.
EXCEPTION HERE
The Great Onion Robbery Wholesalers Pocketed 4cr On Tuesday Alone Subodh Varma | TNN New Delhi: Speculative traders are making super-profits by fixing price in the onion trade while the government is playing around with ad hoc fixes. On a single day on Tuesday, wholesale traders in Delhi bought onions at about Rs 34 per kg while it was sold in retail at Rs 80 per kg. That’s a margin of Rs 46 per kg or 135%!     About 11,445 quintals of onion was bought in the Delhi wholesale markets on that day. So, the total difference between what the wholesale traders paid and what Delhi households paid from their pockets would be over Rs 4 crore.Of course, between the wholesaler buying the onion and the retailer reaching it to your doorstep or local market, there are transport costs, some wastage and so on. But this can at best be a minuscule fraction of the 135% margin, particularly for a commodity like onion that is not easily perishable.     Wholesale price data are collected daily by the National Horticultural Research & Development Foundation (NHRDF) set up by NAFED, the farmers cooperative federation run by the government. This story is not confined to Delhi alone. In 44 major onion markets across the country, profit margins for just one day were of similar orders ranging between Rs 1,500 per quintal in Pune and Rs 5,500 in Udaipur.     Multiply these with the daily arrivals (and subsequent sale) of onions in each and you get the gigantic amounts fleeced from consumers every day — in Bangalore over Rs10.5 crore, in Mumbai, Rs 81.4 lakh, in Kolkata Rs1.3 crore, in Chandigarh over Rs 32 lakh, and so on. Rotting stocks lead to marginal dip in price Lucknow: The retail price of onions in the city which is Rs 60 a kg at present, may fall to Rs 50-52 level. Interestingly, the reason for fall is rotting of the stock hoarded by wholesalers. “Onions have a longer shelf life, but they also rot,” says Satish Sonkar, president of fruits and vegetable sellers association. But this relief is likely to be short-lived as average onion supply to the state capital which is 36 tonne per day has reduced by two-thirds to just 12 tonne, says Sonkar. TNN PAWAR AND PRICES Some statements by Sharad Pawar that failed to dampen soaring prices MILK | JAN 20 There is a serious shortage of milk, and there is pressure to increase prices PAWAR AT DELHI SEMINAR IMPACT Jan 30: Amul raises prices of its brands ‘Taaza’ and ‘Slim and Trim’ by 1 per litre and those of ‘Gold’ and ‘Shakti’ by 2 per litre in Gujarat Jan 22: Maharashtra’s dairies announce milk will cost 2 more per litre SUGAR | JAN 11, 2010     I am not an     astrologer to predict when prices would come down IMPACT: Prices shoot up to 50 a kg July 31, 2009: Pawar tells Rajya Sabha price of sugar can go up as its production has been insufficient so far due to inadequate rains IMPACT: Prices remain high for the rest of the year ONIONS Onion prices will remain high for next three weeks and the situation is likely to improve only after two-three weeks IMPACT: Retail prices remain high at 70-80 Wholesale price has jumped 300% in 2 yrs     Agriculture minister Sharad Pawar has said that it may take 2-3 weeks for prices to come down. At the rate at which hard earned money is being transferred from people to traders, that is enough time for hundreds of crores of rupees to be thus redistributed.     So, who is cornering the mega-profits? There is a fog of contradictory claims and half-truths that surround this key issue. Kewal Kapoor, an onion commission agent in Delhi’s Azadpur mandi, said that onions were sold to wholesale traders at not more than Rs 50 per kg in the whole of December.     The commission agents charge a 6% commission for putting the seller together with the buyer. That will make the price Rs 53 per kg. All subsequent hikes are mark-ups by chains of traders, apart from the minor incidental costs mentioned earlier.     But another agent in the same mandi, Mohit Kumar said that wholesale prices itself were Rs 70-80 per kg. ‘‘Retailers can’t act together. They are just individuals. They take a small profit,’’ he said. According to him, rains have curtailed supply and hence prices have gone up. He had no explanation for the fact that the official rate at the wholesale market was Rs 34.90 per kg and not Rs 70-80 as he claimed.Bhure Lal, a vegetable vendor in East Delhi, said that he bought onions at Rs 72 per kg from the wholesaler in Shahadra mandi. ‘‘In Azadpur, it must have sold at Rs 60,’’ he said. Kapil Chawla, another trader, blamed the huge surge in exports for the depletion of stocks causing a supply constraint and hence high prices. ‘‘It’s all a matter of supply-demand!’’ he said.The whole supply constraint argument is itself under a cloud. In December, Delhi received 2.57 lakh quintals of onion compared to about 3.8 lakh quintals in 2009 and just 1.5 lakh quintals in 2008. But the modal price (the most frequently settled price) in December was Rs 34 this year, Rs 14 in 2009 and Rs 11 in 2008.     So, over a two-year period, onion supply has increased almost 66% since 2008, but wholesale prices have jumped over 300% in the period. Clearly, there is more to it than simple demand-supply equations.     Exports are definitely restricting domestic supply. India’s exports have increased from about 7.8 lakh metric tonnes in 2005-06 to over 18.7 lakh MT in 2009-10. Onion production has also increased, but at a slower rate, from 86 lakh MT in 2005-06 to over 121 lakh MT in 2009-10. So, onion supply stands on a razor’s edge, vulnerable to both export surges and acts of god like unseasonal rains this year. It is this that gives the speculator and hoarder the handle to exploit demand-supply disruptions and make a killing.     (See also Page 8)
T H E Y SA I D I T
Santa onions bring smile Pervez Iqbal Siddiqui | TNN Lucknow: It’s Christmas time and the Santa is back. In Gorakhpur, he went around distributing an unusual but a precious gift: Onions. “I am supposed to bring smiles on the faces of the people. And believe me, this time I have been more successful in my endeavour,” Santa said. “Who says that onions bring tears in one’s eyes? Mine bring smiles,” he said pointing towards his red bag full of onions.     With onion prices touching skies, political parties and some public servants are trying to enhance their public image by selling the vegetable on lower rates. BJP MP in Agra sold a cart load of onions on subsidies rates. In Ghaziabad, a district supply officer, using his “connections” with the wholesalers in vegetable market, arranged for supplying onion on subsidised rates at the fair price shops under the public distribution system in localities which have a substantial count of below poverty line families.     If the Santa with onions in Gorakhpur was the brain child of a Shiv Sena worker to get his political protest noticed, the Bharatiya Janata Party MP selling onions in Agra at Rs 25 per kg was also an attempt to cash in on the situation, politically. Providing onions for sale at fair price shops in Ghaziabad was apparently a more genuine attempt to help the poor.     “Somebody will have to do something about it. Even if you want to call it an attempt to seek publicity, you must appreciate the fact that I did provide over 100 kg onions on less than half the market price,” said Agra MP Ram Shanker Katheriya who spent more than an hour outside the Taj Mahal, selling onions.     For the district supply officer Ghaziabad Anil Dubey, the man who made onions available at FPS of the PDS chain in the district, it was though a very small attempt, it was appreciated by the locals and authorities alike.     “We have planned to provide 1 kg onion on every ration card per week at Rs 28 per kg,” said Dubey, admitting that the move would hardly make any impact on the soaring prices in the open market. “We have managed this on our own. We spoke to the wholesalers and managed to convince them for extending cooperation in the effort,” he said.
POWER DRESSING Onion import from across the world State-owned Corpns Pressed Into Service TIMES NEWS NETWORK New Delhi: Singed by the political heat over high onion prices, the government moved on a war footing to import the aam aadmi’s stock vegetable from countries as diverse as Bangladesh, Pakistan and Canada.     While state-owned STC, MMTC and Project Exports Corporation have been mandated to urgently import onions to be delivered by air to northern India and by sea to the western coast, the quantities and modalities for getting the shipments into the country are expected to be finalised by late on Thursday.     A mechanism to compensate these companies in case of losses and for subsidised sale was also expected to be worked out in the coming days. The details are being worked out by the commerce ministry. Officials said the current price of onions in international markets was not high but could rise with India placing orders. Some felt the situation could have been anticipated better.     With prices softening, agriculture cooperative Nafed, however, said it had deferred onion imports from Pakistan. “Earlier, we had decided to send our officers to Pakistan to import 2,200 tonnes of onion. However, as the price of the commodity has started to decline, we have now deferred our plan to import,” Nafed chairman Bijender Singh told reporters.     On Wednesday, the government decided to import onions soon after agriculture minister Sharad Pawar said the government was not looking at the option. A high-level meeting chaired by cabinet secretary K M Chandrasekhar and attended by senior commerce, agriculture and consumer affairs officials felt imports were essential to cool domestic prices. Though it will take a while for onions from destinations like Canada to reach India, the government is hoping that contracting imports will dampen the heated market sentiment. “The PSUs have been mandated to import onions wherever they are available on absolute priority. They can be delivered by air as well as sea,” commerce minister Anand Sharma told TOI. Despite the urgency displayed by the government, it may take a while for retail prices to subside despite the low rates in major mandis. Though imports are being fast-tracked, it may take a week or 10 days for onions to reach India and push down retail rates.
Govt presses pause button on diesel, LPG price hike Sanjay Dutta | TNN New Delhi: Consumers may be in a soup over sky-rocketing prices of onion and tomoto, but they can expect some relief on at least one front. The government has put the pause button on raising diesel and cooking gas prices for fear of fuelling a spiralling effect on the cost of all goods and services. Instead, the focus is on solving the jigsaw of shielding consumers from the impact of rising crude and cutting losses of state-run oilmarketers as global oil prices shot up to $91 a barrel on Thursday.     The contours of the government’s decision emerged last week during oil minister Murli Deora’s discussions on the issue with Prime Minister Manmohan Singh and finance minister Pranab Mukherjee, who also heads the ministerial panel on fuel prices. Sources said, the PM expressed concern over the cascading effect of diesel price revision on the aam aadmi.     One option that figured in these discussions is to remove the 5% import duty on crude as was done during oil’s peaking run through 2008 as a breather for the companies. The duty was restored after crude slid to $45 per barrellevel. This is one topic that is expected to figure when Mukherjee hears out oil ministry bureaucrats and company executives after a public function at IndianOil’s Haldia refinery on Saturday.     Deora neither confirmed, nor denied his meeting PM and FM. “I don’t comment on discussion in the government. The UPA has been committed to making fuel available at affordable prices. Even when oil prices had hit an all-time high of $116 a barrel in 2008, the UPA shielded consumers from its full impact. We have been able to provide relief all this while, and I don’t see why this should be different now,” he told ToI.     On December 22, ToI first reported that the diesel price hike has gone off the Centre’s radar. An indication of this came when the ministerial panel put off its meet scheduled for Wednesday to decide on raising diesel price between Rs 1.50 and Rs 2 a litre.     Diesel is the main fuel for transporters and farmers, and any increase in its price raises their costs that is passed on to consumers. As a result, prices of goods and necessities — from atta, daal, chawal, subzi, bus and taxi fares to freight — go up. In the marketplace, the increase in consumer prices is always more than the numbers crunched by economists as service providers or traders use the opportunity to jack up their margins.     The spike in food and fuel price indices makes the situation more difficult for raising fuel prices. Indices for food and fuel prices jumped to 12.13% and 10.74%, respectively, in the week ended December 11 from the previous week’s 9.46% and 10.67%, respectively. There are also political considerations arising out of impending Bengal elections. In her public rallies, Trinamool Congress leader Mamata Banerjee is making no bone of her displeasure over price rise and talking of going it alone in the polls.
Crackdown leads to fall in onion price Lucknow: Following a crackdown by the authorities on hoarders, onion price fell to Rs 50-level in Lucknow and adjoining areas. Retail prices of onion in the state have shot up by four to five times — from Rs 28 per kg to Rs 80-100 per kg — during the past five days. “This rise and fall of prices in this part of the state will continue till April because people might hoard stocks for few days pushing the prices higher. But simultaneously, the hoarders will have to throw open their stocks after a few days as onion cannot be held back for long, and this would bring the prices down,” said Satish Sonkar, president of the UP Fruits and Vegetables Wholesalers Association. TNN
Milk, edible oil could be next headache Sidhartha | TNN New Delhi: After onions, milk and edible oil could be the next frontier for the government with top officials saying that a team led by cabinet secretary K M Chandrasekhar had noticed a sharp increase in prices of these two essential food products.     According to data compiled by the ministry of food and consumer affairs, in Delhi, milk prices have climbed by over 9% over the 12 months till the end of November, putting further strain on household budgets. According to the latest food inflation numbers, milk prices have gone up by close to 18% for the year upto December 11.     Similarly, over the last 12 onths, price of edible oil has gone up by anywhere between 5% in case of mustard oil and over 43% (the landed cost of crude palm oil) in various wholesale and retail markets across the country.     Though onions are in prime focus at the moment, with various government agencies roped in to tame the price of the politically-sensitive food item, officials said that with food inflation on the rise, the government would step in to keep the price of these commodities under control.     However, controlling the price of commodities such as palm oil, which is largely imported into the country, could prove to be a tough task, officials admitted.
Pricey veggies push food inflation to double digits It Could Get Higher, Warn Economists TIMES NEWS NETWORK New Delhi: The pinch that you have been feeling because of spiralling prices is now being borne out by figures. A worried government discovered to its dismay on Thursday that food price inflation has bounced back into double digits on the back of soaring onion, tomato and fruit prices.     Economists said that the possibility of further increase was not ruled out in the coming weeks as the price of spices, fruits and vegetables have shot up in the second half of December and are expected to rule high for a few more weeks. This is expected to find expression in the next food inflation figure.     Data released by the Commerce Ministry has showed year-on-year food inflation rose to 12.13% in the week ending December 11 compared to 9.46% in the previous week. This is the third consecutive week when food price inflation has risen after showing brief signs of moderation on hopes of robust crops due to good monsoon rains. Around 60% of the increase was attributed to fruits and vegetables.     Finance minister Pranab Mukherjee said there had been some upward movement of food items and one of the reasons may be the high prices of onion but there was good news on the pulses front. High pulses price had pushed up overall inflation in the past. ‘‘This year, pulses production may be 2 million tonnes more than what it was last year,’’ the minister said, adding, ‘‘That means to that extent it will have its impact and pulses’ prices have already started coming down.’’ Worst is yet to come, fear economists     Opposition parties have stepped up their attack and have come down heavily on the government for failing to check prices. They have taken to the streets to protest high prices. Though the price of onion started coming down following steps taken by the government over the last two days, concerns of a fresh round of spike in the prices of tomatoes and garlic have gripped housholds. Government officials, however, termed these as local and seasonal issues.     Interestingly, the marginal dip in onion prices has prompted agricultural cooperative Nafed to lower imports from Pakistan. Whether this will slow down the price decline is not known. The index for food articles group rose 2.3% to 185.8 from 181.7 for the previous week due to higher prices of fruits & vegetables (6%), fish-marine (5%), fish-inland and condiments & spices (3% each), barley (2%) and bajra, urad, maize and rice (1% each).     Onion prices rose 33.48% on an annual basis while fruit and milk prices rose 20.15% and 17.83%, respectively.
S N A P J U D G M E N T
PM quizzes Pawar on onion prices New Delhi: With high onion prices bringing people across India to tears, Prime Minister Manmohan Singh on Friday queried agriculture minister Sharad Pawar on the reasons for the spike, while announcing relief for distressed farmers in Maharashtra.     The matter was raised after an all-party delegation, led by Maharashtra CM Prithviraj Chavan, met with the Prime Minister to seek relief for the state’s farmers. Among those present was Pawar, who is from Maharashtra, the main oniongrowing state.     At the meeting, the Prime Minister announced a Rs 400-crore advance relief package for farmers affected by unseasonal rains in the state that damaged several crops, notably the onion produce, sending prices spiralling.     “Requirement of further assistance will be considered in light of the assessment made by an inter-ministerial central team, after visiting the state,” said a statement from the Prime Minister’s Office.     Manmohan Singh’s chat with Pawar later came against the backdrop of opposition’s angst at an alleged statement by the agriculture minister three days ago that onion prices could take three weeks to come down.     The CPM slammed the government not just for high onion prices, but also for what it called were divergent voices and approach by various ministries on steps needed to bring prices of onions and other vegetables down.     “There are contradictory statements of different ministries regarding the steps required to control the price of onions, as for example whether official agencies should import onions or not,” said its politburo. Pawar’s daughter Supriya Sule defended the comment. “He (Pawar) could have easily said that the prices would come down within a week’s time. But then, if the prices had failed to come down, he would have been criticized again,” Sule said in Baramati, her constituency. IANS Crisis exposes price monitoring panel New Delhi: The onion crisis has highlighted the inefficacy of the government’s price monitoring mechanism which tends to mechanically compile inputs from state governments without any real-time intelligence on either supplies or market mood. The ministry of consumer affairs seems to have belatedly realized the need to improve the price monitoring committee’s capacities as it provided no clue about the onion storm that hit UPA-2 amid ships on Monday with retail prices more than doubling over the weekend. The retail price report showed onion prices in Delhi last on December 15 — to be Rs 31 a kg. Friday was a government holiday for Moharram and over the weekend thereafter, onion prices simply went through the roof. On Monday, reports of onions touching Rs 75-80 a kg shook the city and the government. Now, the December 22 price on the report is Rs 64 a kg. TNN
E D I T PAG E M A I L B OX MY TIMES MY VOICE A shining role model With reference to the article ‘The Tallest Cricketer’ (Dec 24) by Boria Majumdar, Sachin Tendulkar’s 50th Test hundred has lifted the pall of gloom hanging over us in recent days. Sachin represents a rare blend of high achievement and modesty, which makes him a shining role model for millions of cricket fans. His mind-boggling career statistics are just numbers. What really sets him apart from other talented players of both past and present generations is his approach to each game as if it were his debut. They say he is the new age Don Bradman. Bradman himself famously said of Tendulkar that he reminds him of his own cricketing style. Lesser mortals would have got satiated with all this adulation and riches, but not our batting maestro. He carries on his quest for excellence.     Dushyant Singh Panwar, NEW DELHI Move beyond quotas The editorial ‘Shift The Tracks’ (Dec 24) discusses the real issues dogging the country regarding the reservation policy. It is ironic that, even 63 years after Independence, more and more communities should clamour for job reservation and other benefits. However, the benefits of quotas no longer percolate to the targeted beneficiaries in any community. Bringing more communities within the ambit of reservations is, therefore, at best just a cosmetic, quick-fix solution, not the longlasting remedy for the socio-economic maladies afflicting the nation.     H P Murali, BANGALORE Cooking up a crisis With reference to the editorial ‘Onion Rings’ (Dec 22), agriculture minister Sharad Pawar has to answer for why the nation is reeling under severe food inflation. India being a vast country, damage to crops due to natural calamities in some areas is not unusual. But this gets compensated with good harvests in other regions. Hence, there should actually not be an acute shortage of food items to trigger price rise. However, trading at commodity exchanges leads to manipulation of prices, along with hoarding. While hoarders create artificial shortage and jack up prices, government inaction deepens the crisis. In such situations, official statements like Pawar’s that it will take three weeks to bring down onion prices can only embolden hoarders.     Raj Bagri, KOLKATA
Onions, At Whose Cost? Keeping farm policy out of the economic reforms agenda hits farmers the most Madhu Purnima Kishwar     The panic reaction of the government over onion prices demonstrates yet again that the agenda of economic reforms and liberalisation is destined to remain confined to the corporate sector while farm policy remains hostage to draconian restrictions and statist interventions to appease the influential urban consumer.     Each episode of sharp escalation in onion prices has followed large-scale crop destruction. The crisis of 1998, which led to the downfall of the BJP government in Delhi, was caused by the El Nino factor which destroyed a large part of the crop in Nashik, the onion-growing belt of Maharashtra. When prices rose to Rs 60 a kilo, the Delhi government imported onions from the very countries to which we had earlier exported. Even though the landing price was no less than Rs 60 per kilo, these onions were sold to urban consumers at Rs 10 a kilo through government outlets.     This time large-scale floods in the onion-growing states again led to massive crop destruction with prices shooting up from Rs 30 to Rs 70 a kilo within a week. The media failed to report that even with high prices, the loss of crop has meant that farmers are not recovering even the cost of production. Also, that the cultivation cost has escalated dramatically because farm inputs, including labour costs, have sharply escalated in recent years. With vegetables and fruits, the difference between farm gate price and consumer price can be as high as 400 per cent. Farmers get only a small part of the benefit from rising prices.     But the government does little to correct this distortion. Instead, all we get are knee-jerk reactions announcing sudden bans on exports proving that the issue is being viewed solely from the point of view of the urban consumer, not the farmer. A government sensitive to farmers’ concerns would launch a concerted media campaign to urge urban consumers to bear with short-term inconvenience, to explain that the temporary high prices due to crop shortage would help farmers devastated by crop destruction due to flood to recover part of their losses.     If urban consumers reduce their onion consumption for a few days, prices would stabilise much sooner than with public hysteria around the issue. It is ridiculous to invoke the Essential Commodities Act to ban exports to bring down prices through non-market, statist interventions. Or for our ministers to threaten action against "hoarders." It shows they don't know that onions cannot be stored or hoarded for long. They start drying and losing weight within a week.     This is not to deny that the poor are indeed hit by sharp escalation in food prices. But they are no less adversely hit by lack of sanitation, basic housing or clean drinking water. Yet, these issues never acquire the urgency that urban middle class concerns do.     The panic created by middleclass consumers needs to be seen in perspective. These families think nothing of buying an ice cream cone for Rs 50, a pizza for Rs 400, 1 litre sugarflavoured water for Rs 50 – but go hysterical if onion prices shoot up to Rs 60 a kilo. This happens year after year with crop after crop – sugar, rice, wheat, cotton. At the time of crop harvest, exports are often banned so that prices come crashing down and farmers have to sell at a loss because they don’t have the holding capacity. The moment select traders have acquired the desired crop at artificially depressed prices, export quotas are slowly opened so that these already wealthy merchants make a big killing at the cost of farmers.     Many farmers growing onions and other perishable crops end up ploughing back their crops into the soil because the artificially depressed prices do not even cover the cost of carrying them to the mandi. Our urban-centric media rarely sheds any tears for the plight of indebted farmers at such times.     This economic warfare on the Indian farmer is carried out year after year with the active collusion of the bureaucracy and politicians in return for a share of the booty. The now on, now off export quotas destroy the credibility of India’s export sector and reduce our leverage in the international market. These manipulations are the primary reason for the Indian farmer’s indebtedness.     Needless restrictions on the farm sector have led to depressed incomes, stagnant agricultural production and distortions in trade and pricing, flight of people and capital from the sector, diminishing investments in agriculture which obstructs the organic growth of agro-based industries in villages and consequently results in higher prices of food crops.     The answer to rural poverty does not lie in the government pretending to feed the farmers who feed us all by corruptionridden “welfare” schemes like providing foodgrains to farmers at Rs 2 a kilo. That too distorts market prices and harms the farm sector. Farmers need fair prices for their products, not to live on crumbs thrown by the government.     Just as the corporate sector has flourished even with halfhearted doses of liberalisation and the end of licence-quota raj so also the farm sector can flourish only when the agenda of economic reforms extends to it – which means the dead hand of the government is not allowed to choke the enterprise of our farmers. The policy of restrictive quotas for farm produce export needs to be junked to help farmers earn better prices, which in turn will enable them to invest in improving production. Higher production will inevitably bring down food prices.     The writer is professor, Centre for the Study of Developing Societies, Delhi.
YO U R MONEY Commodity MFs soar, but limit exposure to 5% Excess Liquidity Has Triggered Latest Rally M Allirajan TNN     The onions have made you cry and you would be quite rightly seeing red in tomato rates. But with prices of key commodities including oil and copper on the rise, mutual funds (MFs), that focus on the commodity space, have gained sharply in the past six months.     Four commodities-focused MFs have made it to the top-15 list, including the best performer, that gained about 34% in six months.     There has been a rally in commodities and a secular rally in agricultural commodities. The demand for core commodities (such as crude and coal) is growing but supply side pressures remain, says Mahesh Patil, head, domestic equities, Birla Sun Life MF.     Demand outlook has become much better and commodities are slowly getting back to their earlier high levels, he says. Major commodities are seeing a rally due to the second round of quantitative easing (printing of currency) in the US, according to Surajit Misra, national head, MFs, Bajaj Capital, a distribution platform for funds.     A lot of money is flowing and the excess liquidity is getting into commodities, say observers.     However, only a handful of commodity-oriented MFs are available in the market now and they invest mostly in global stocks and funds. These MFs invest in a range of companies, including Monsanto, Rio Tinto, Posco, Exxon Mobil and global funds with underlying investments in commodity stocks.     Though commodities space is large in the country, only very few stocks are available for investment, say observers. The subsidy regime is a big constraint for public sector oil refiners and upstream producers in India and so investments in stocks in the sector are not favoured, they say.     Commodity prices are now globally linked. So it makes sense to look outside India, says Birla's Patil. Also, the commodity story is increasingly becoming a proxy for the growth of emerging markets. Whenever there is a strong demand for key raw materials in markets such as China, stocks of commodity firms do well pushing up returns from these funds.     But commodity-focused MFs come with come with exchange rate risk and a strong rupee can impact returns adversely, say industry officials. They are quite volatile and in fact in the first six months of 2010 have generated negative returns. These funds also attract higher tax rates than plain equity MFs.     One can take a 5% exposure in global commodity stocks through these funds as a diversification strategy, say experts. One can invest at least once in a quarter in these funds. Inflation is a worldwide concern and commodity MFs, especially funds that focus on agriculture, would be able to deliver good returns, says Misra.
It’s A Wild-Goose Chase Admin’s Bid To Provide Onions At Controlled Rates Fizzles Out Due To Shortage TIMES NEWS NETWORK Lucknow: Onions joining the elite club of veggies is making people cry. But what has added to their misery is the apparent failure of district administration’s bid to keep soaring price of onions under control. A day after the authorities decided to tie up with vegetable sellers’ association fixing Rs 22-24 per kg price of onions in retail market, buyers had a wild goose chase.     A notable number of special shops meant to sell onions at Rs 22-24 per kilos wore a deserted look on Monday afternoon. A few which remained open, ran out of stock in no time. In all, 25 shops were identified across the length and breath of the city for the purpose.     TOI also went on a hunt and returned buying onions at Rs 36 per kg from a market in Daliganj, where one of the shops was supposed to sell onions at controlled rates. The trail began with Narhi vegetable market where the vendors claimed that they had no idea of any such drive.     They also refused to sell onions at a cost lower than Rs 36 per kg. One of them claimed that the price could be higher in a day or two. ‘‘Aaj hi le lo sahab, kal se bhaav aur chhadh jaega,’’ said a vendor Mohd Raees (Buy it today itself, the price would go up tomorrow).     Nishatganj vegetable market, where vendor Shamsher Sonkar had volunteered to sell onions at the control price, was the next stop. There only hung a flex-material poster claiming that ‘onions would be sold at cheaper rates here’.     ‘‘Onions were sold at the government rate here yesterday. But Sonkar has not put up his shop today,’’ said the vendor of the neighbouring shop. When asked why, he said, ‘‘he had no stock for today.’’ TOI contacted Sonkar on his cellphone and he admitted that he ran out of stock. ‘‘I am at Indiranagar with a fellow stockist trying to arrange for onions,’’ he said.     As per a media release issued by the district administration, a special shop was expected to come up near Badshahnagar. But the team returned empty handed. ‘‘There are no special shops in the vicinity. I am selling onions at Rs 40 per kilo,’’ said a vendor, Vishnu Kumar.     Daliganj market was also supposed to have a special shop. But none of the vendors could guess where the shop was. ‘‘Are you sure there is a shop of this kind here?’’ asked Mohd Imran when an inquiry was made. ‘‘I have not even heard of any such endeavour,’’ he added.     Wholesale markets were also a disappointment in contrast to claims made by district administration. ‘‘The wholesale price of onions was Rs 32-35 per kilo,’’ said Satish Sonkar, president of the UP fruits and vegetable growers and sellers association.     The shop in Indiranagar, opposite HAL, was perhaps the only respite where onions were being sold. ‘‘I have sold nothing less than 150 kilos of onions since yesterday,’’ claimed the vendor. THE DRIVE LUCKNOW ADMINISTRATION INITIATED A DRIVE TO KEEP PRICE OF ONIONS UNDER CONTROL. AFTER TYING UP WITH SOME VENDORS, ONIONS WERE TO BE SOLD AT A RATE OF RS 22-24. REPORTEDLY, THE DRIVE WAS NOT SUCCESSFUL WHAT IS AVAILABLE A DAY AFTER BIG | Average to big in size, the larger onions were sold at Rs 36 in the wholesale market. In the retail market, the same lot was sold at Rs 40 MEDIUM to SMALL | This stock was partially rotten. The wholesale price was Rs 32 per kilogramme as against an average retail price of 35 per kg WHO SAYS WHAT     It is not possible for     vendors to sell onions at     such a low rate. Some may have buckled under pressure from the district administration, but this not a feasible plan. Onions will continue to make people cry till February Satish Sonkar | PRESIDENT, UP FRUITS AND VEGETABLES GROWERS AND SELLERS ASSOCIATION     Shops did open and     onions were available at     the rate fixed by the administration. We got a reasonably satisfactory feedback from the team. Strictness from the administration compelled some whole-sellers to open their shops Anil Sagar | DM, LUCKNOW WHAT’S THE VEGGIE TALE TOMATOES IN A SOUP | You may have to put on hold your desire to sip steaming hot tomato soup this winter. That’s because tomato prices are tippling over. On Monday, wholesale price of 1 kilogramme of tomatoes was Rs 28. It escalated to Rs 38 to Rs 40 per kilogramme in the wholesale markets. ‘‘What can one do? Tomatoes are not grown in UP. They come from other states. The supply is short,’’ said Satish Sonkar, president, UP vegetables and fruits growers and sellers association. GARLIC | Though garlic prices eased on Monday, the pungent vegetable continued to be retailed at higher-thanaverage seasonal rates. ‘‘The per kilogramme cost of garlic is Rs 260,’’ a retailer in Badshahnagar said. Before Christmas, the retail rate was Rs 300. In the wholesale market, the cost was between Rs 220 and Rs 230. The average seasonal rate is around Rs 180 and Rs 200. This, however, does not pinch the ordinary buyer too much. ‘‘Very little garlic is needed for a family. I am sure, even a kilo is more than enough for the entire month,’’ said Reeta Singh, a Kaiserbagh based housewife PEACE FROM PEAS | Green peas are vegetables of the season and appear to be in the affordable range. While the wholesale price of a kilogramme of peas was Rs 14, it was readily available at a rate of Rs 20 with retailers. Vendors in retail market in fact made a catchline on the reducing price. ‘‘At least I cannot imagine a meal without peas in the winters. And in this age of price-rise, reducing rates of anything are a good news,’’ said Sameena Ali of Gwyne Road
EGoM extends ban on export of pulses New Delhi: In an effort to ease the burden of rising food prices, the government on Tuesday extended the ban on export of pulses for an indefinite period and released additional quota of wheat and rice for various states to be sold at subsidized rates through ration shops.     The Empowered Group of Ministers (EGoM) on food, headed by FM Pranab Mukherjee, reviewed the price situation in the country and decided to allow duty-free import of pulses until March 2012. The government had banned export of pulses, which have a weight of 0.72% in the wholesale price index, in June 2006. In Tuesday’s meeting, it was decided to give additional 25 lakh tonne of wheat and rice quota at the BPL (below poverty line) rates to the states, agriculture minister Sharad Pawar saidtold reporters after the meeting.     BPL families have to pay Rs 4.15 per kg for wheat and Rs 5.65 per kg for rice. The 25 lakh tonne is in addition to the normal quota available to this category The agriculture minister also said another 25 lakh tonne of additional quota of wheat and rice would be made available to APL (above poverty line) families. APL families pay Rs 11.85 per kg for rice and Rs 8.45 per kg for wheat.“A total of 50 lakh tonne of additional quota of wheat and rice has been approved to the states and they can lift the stocks from Wednesday,” Pawar said. The government is reeling under the impact of high food prices. It has taken several steps to ease prices of onions which shot up to Rs 70-Rs 80 per kg last week. It has banned onion exports allowed duty free import of the commodity.Data released by the commerce and industry ministry last week showed food inflation rose to a six week high of 12.31% for the week ended December 31, heaping more pressure on the government to check spiralling food prices. TNN
E D I T PAG E M A I L B OX MY TIMES MY VOICE A questionable verdict With reference to the editorial ‘Raj Throwback’ (December 27), civil society activist Binayak Sen’s booking under Sections 120B and 124A of the IPC – for hatching a criminal conspiracy and waging war against the state – is shocking, to say the least. These sections give arbitrary powers to the police and can easily be misused. There is no denying that the Naxals have become a huge law and order problem in as many as 150 districts of India. However, can people like Sen be labelled as dissidents waging war against the state for empathising with the Naxals? In this context, the concerns of the civil society activists are justified.     Vijayan Balakrishnan, PUNE No end to farmers’ woes With reference to the article ‘Onions, At Whose Cost?’ (December 27) by Madhu Purnima Kishwar, it is appalling that the government forms policies from the point of view of urban consumers and not farmers. While economic reforms have benefited the rich, they have not improved the lot of the farmers. On the contrary, many farmers have committed suicide in certain parts of the country. This exposes the government’s lack of vision in managing its agriculture policy. Its arbitrary interventions in export-import policy haven’t helped the cause of farmers. As for price rise, that too has always benefited middlemen and traders rather than the farmers.     Ranbir Singh Jakher, MEERUT
Onions from Pak reach Vashi market Vijay Singh | TNN Navi Mumbai: A consignment of onions from Lahore reached the APMC wholesale market in Mumbai’s Vashi on Tuesday. Maharashtra agriculture ministry had said that over 40 tonnes of onions from Pakistan would reach the Mumbai sector. To tide over the onion crisis, the Centre had ordered onion import from Pakistan. Export of onions was also stopped to stabilize the prices.     Vashi’s Agriculture Produce Marketing Committee (APMC) director (onion-potato), Ashok Valunj, said 200 sacks of Pakistani onions weighing around eight tonnes reached the wholesale market in the morning.     ‘‘This onion stock came by road from Punjab, where the import cargo from Lahore initially arrived. So, we will have to bear the transportation cost,’’ said Valunj.
11 more outlets to sell onions at control rate Lucknow: District administration on Tuesday directed opening of 11 more outlets for selling of onions at control rates.     Seven of these outlets are in the Dubagga vegetable mandi while the remaining are at Sitapur Road Mandi. The price of onions at these retail outlets range from Rs 20-24 per kg for grade-A onions while the grade-B onions are available at Rs 16-19 per kg. The C-grade onion is being sold at Rs 9-15 per kg.     Earlier, 26 such retail outlets were opened in different parts of the city on Monday. ADM (Civil Supplies) SK Singh stated that several complaints about over charging on onion prices have been received regarding some retailers. “We have directed the mandi inspectors to check these outlets and take action against such retailers,” said Singh. TNN
E R R AT I C A Backcast for 2011 What this year’s players will be doing in the next Bachi Karkaria     Is January 1 just another date? With the same old destiny, give or take some extra scams, shams and traffic jams? Decidedly. But rituals must be followed to fill media space and time. Year-end wrap-ups have been reminding us of what we’d rather forget, and year-beginning forecasts will make resolutions which we all know won’t last beyond the hangover. So, with just two days to the countdown, allow me to serve up a reconstituted dish for 2011 from 2010’s leftovers.     In deference to 2010’s most prominent feature, the Gujarati greeting, ‘Kem chho?’ will change to ‘Scem Chho?’.     Suresh & Lalit will enter into a partnership called Kalmodi Ltd. It will be launched with a flashy masquerade ball where a makeshift toilet will come dressed as the Queen’s Baton or even video equipment with a 4,50,000-sterling pounds price tag. However, if you see a cheerleader, don’t ask her if she’s actually Manohar Shashank.     The 2G scam will be renamed 20G or 2000G or 20000000000000G depending on the widening spectrum of scamsters, tapes, loss to exchequer…     Speaking of which (though not on the phone), certain mediapersons will be in a race to discover a cure for the termination-illness caused by exposure to Radiation. Naturally, Phase I trials will be conducted by the Tata Memorial Hospital. Not privately, we trust.     Jairam Ramesh will take vanvas, subject to the MoEF certifying him as being nonpolluting. However, such a clearance could be challenged by a host of parties, from builders of new cities to destroyers of old hills. In fact, they could declare Jairam a no-go area. Onion prices will soar, and airlines will remain grounded. Thanks to Saina’s continuing trajectory, in India her game will be referred to as ‘Goodminton’. Sania will have a baby and thereby a legitimate excuse for her nonperformance. Shashi-Sunanda may adopt one. Toh Tweet. The Bachchan baby could finally give the Big B his best role, in and as ‘Grand-Paa’. Shah Rukh Khan’s production house will make a film on Bill Gates. It’s to be titled, ‘My Name Is Daan’. Bigg Boss could be mistaken for Teletubbies, thanks to its new selfcensorship avatar. This means Pamela Anderson will look like an animated bunny instead of an inflatable doll. You will recall that she became a showstopper in a way no one wanted. Ms Anderson has also given new meaning to the phrase ‘disproportionate assets’. Urban realty shows will continue to grab eyeballs and lower counterparts of the home-seeker’s anatomy. As for the two newsiest properties of 2010, Adarsh will demolish our lofty hopes of punishment to the highly placed scamsters. Mukesh Ambani will rise to new heights by adding yet another floor to Antilla. And to end with token cheer, the terrorists will LeT us off the hook for some time. * * * Alec Smart said: “Please don’t wish us a Happy New Fear.” bachi.karkaria@timesgroup.com http://blogs.timesofindia.indiatimes.com/erratica 
Looking Back, Looking Ahead 2010 has been a good year for the economy, and 2011 could be better if we manage the risks Sudipto Mundle     Political news continues to dominate the headlines, unfortunately for all the wrong reasons. If you are looking for something to cheer you up for the New Year, turn to the news on the economic front. 2010 has been a good year, and 2011 could be better if we can manage the risks.     High growth is back. Midyear estimates for 2010-11 indicate that the economy is currently growing at an annual rate of 8.9%. Moreover, the high growth is well dispersed, which augurs well for its sustainability through 2011 and beyond. Agriculture is lagging behind with a growth rate of less than 4%. So also the utilities sector – electricity, gas and water supply – growing at less than 5%. All other sectors are growing at over 8%. Some major sectors like manufacturing, transport, communications, wholesale and retail trade, hotels and tourism are growing at remarkable rates of over 11%.     On the demand side, private consumption, capital formation and exports, the three largest components of aggregate demand, are growing at 10.6%, 14.9% and 10.1% respectively in real terms. Responding to this robust growth performance, the stock price index has also climbed back to 20,000. It last reached this level in early 2008 before the global financial crisis triggered its tailspin down to 7,000.     Alongside this buoyancy, there are also some adverse developments. These are risks that will have to be managed if the high growth of 2010 is to be sustained or bettered in 2011. The immediate worry is inflation. Consumer prices continue to increase at near double-digit levels (9.7%), a trend recently dramatised by the sharp rise in onion prices. Currently food prices are inflating at an annual rate of over 12%. The other major source of rising consumer prices is the price of crude oil and related products. These prices are inflating at an annual rate of around 15%, but could go higher if global crude prices keep climbing towards $100 a barrel or more.     For several quarters now, the RBI has been tightening monetary policy to curb inflationary pressures. Commodity specific interventions have also been introduced to stabilise those food prices that have risen most sharply, such as onions now and sugar earlier. However, the government’s basic fiscal policy stance has remained expansionary. The finance minister announced recently that the fiscal stimulus will be retained for some more time, implying a large deficit again in the Budget for 2011-12.     At first glance, this is puzzling, since the main worry now is inflation not growth, and that would call for fiscal compression. However, the finance minister may be anticipating further increases in the price of oil, and providing for compensation to oil companies if they are prevented from fully passing on the price increases to consumers. Hence, paradoxically, the main aim of the deficit may indeed be containing inflation.     A second major risk is the continuing sovereign debt crisis in Europe. After Greece and Ireland, Spain, Portugal and Italy are the next in line for a potential sovereign debt default. If one or more of these countries do default, the effects will be transmitted to India via two main channels. One is trade. A further slowdown or recession in Europe will hurt India’s exports to Europe, and hence its growth. However, that effect will be muted so long as India’s other major trading partners, especially China and the US, remain buoyant. Indeed, growth in the EU area as well as Japan has been quite depressed this year, but its impact on India is barely visible.     The other transmission channel is flow of capital. The volumes of sovereign debt in the countries at risk are not large enough for such defaults to trigger another global recession. In fact, such an event could further divert capital flows from Europe to less risky emerging markets like India, as is already happening to some extent. The recent bull run in the stock market, like that of 2007, has been led by the inflow of portfolio investments from foreign institutional investors. This is not an unmixed blessing. The resulting rupee appreciation has hurt the growth of exports, and a sudden stop or reversal of these flows could again destabilise the market. However, with the US economy recovering, fuelled by Barack Obama’s recent tax cut Bill and exceptional monetary expansion, a second global recession seems improbable. On balance, while Europe remains a negative factor, it is not likely to derail high growth in India.     The third and most important risk is political, the deficit of good governance. Nitish Kumar’s resounding victory in Bihar reinforces the signals from other recent elections, that performance is finally replacing political mobilisation based on caste and religion. Daily revelations about multiple scams, from looting of 2G spectrum sale money and Commonwealth Games money to Adarsh Society and other land allocation deals also suggest that while corruption is widespread and deep-seated, some institutional safeguards are still working. On the other hand, selective targeting of investment proposals has spread great nervousness in the corporate world. Political patronage or the lack of it, not performance, will still be the main determinant of economic success in 2011. The more things seem to change, the more they remain the same.     The writer is emeritus professor at the National Institute of Public Finance and Policy, New Delhi.
‘High rate of price rise a new risk’     There are weekly variations in prices, but whether these can be corrected in the coming weeks remains to be seen,” FM Pranab Mukherjee said. His revision of the inflation forecast to 6.5% has come barely ten days after PM Manmohan Singh estimated that the year-end inflation will be around 5.5%.     “The speed of decline in food prices will not be what the policymakers expect it to be. Vegetable prices will come down, but egg, meat and fish prices will be under pressure due to the change in dietary patterns in the country,” said Crisil chief economist D K Joshi.     During the week ended December 18, rising onion price was the main culprit, recording a 40% hike from a year ago, while vegetable prices jumped 29.26%. Fruit prices rose 21.97% and egg, meat and fish went up by 20.34%. However, cereal inflation declined significantly, and economists attributed it to the improvement in supply due to the good monsoon.     The RBI, in its financial stability report, said the high rate of price rise had emerged as a new risk factor. “Growth has rebounded strongly, but inflationary pressures are driven both by domestic demand and increasing commodity prices,” it said.     The central bank has consistently cautioned about the rising inflationary pressures.
E D I T PAG E M A I L B OX MY TIMES MY VOICE Cosmic consciousness With reference to the Q&A (December 24), the latest theory of the universe reinforces the Indian viewpoint that the universe is infinite and cyclical. In the Bhagavad Gita, Arjuna repeatedly refers to infinity. Roger Penrose’s statement points towards the increasing realisation of interdependence between philosophy and science in the West. In fact, Mani Bhaumik, author of The Cosmic Detective: Exploring The Mysteries of Our Universe, goes to the extent of saying that many physicists now talk like Vedic philosophers. There’s room to recognise the extent of human ignorance and the need to develop an attitude proper to knowledge seekers rather than conquerors of the universe. Human cognition is a speck in the cosmic consciousness.     G P Rao, NEW DELHI Push farm reform With reference to the article ‘Onions, At Whose Cost?’ (December 27) by Madhu Purnima Kishwar, it’s appalling that people in urban areas never give a thought to the plight of farmers who are duped by both middlemen traders and retailers. Worse, they expect the government to scale down commodity prices, which often adversely affects farmers. It is time to put farm policy on the economic reforms agenda. Instead of giving food grains at subsidised rates, a strong and sensible farm policy will better serve people’s interests.     Siddhant V Pujari, PUNE
heard saying
Onion pushes food inflation to 14.4% TIMES NEWS NETWORK New Delhi: Food inflation rose to a 10-week high mid-December on soaring prices of onion, vegetables, fruits and other commodities, prompting the government to raise its year-end headline inflation forecast to 6.5%.     Data released by the commerce and industry ministry on Thursday showed the food price index rose 14.44% in the week ended December 18, accelerating from 12.13% in the previous week.     Economists say that poultry and milk are likely to exert further pressure on food inflation even as vegetable prices are expected to moderate in the coming weeks.
Change The Game Improved India-Pakistan relations crucial for this decade     If one were to pose the question what would be the single most important transformative event that could occur in South Asia in 2011, the answer has to be peace breaking out between India and Pakistan. This is especially true in the wake of the economic downturn in the West, which has provided a window of opportunity for both countries to enhance their global profile.     There is a lot that the two neighbours can learn from each other. Enhanced trade in products and services could pave the way for great synergy between the economies of the two nations, both of which would save on costs incurred through diversion of trade through third countries. The benefits of an enhanced trade relationship are already evident in Pakistani onions coming in to dampen food price inflation in India. But while this is just a one-off example of an emergency response to an ongoing crisis, just imagine what the positive results could be if trade and investment were freed up across the board. A potential area of close cooperation is the IT sector. There are certainly a number of things that India can learn from the textile sector in Pakistan. Not only would lifting trade and investment barriers directly benefit both economies, getting a fix on jihadi militancy – essential for peace to break out between India and Pakistan – would also multiply foreign investment pouring into Pakistan. But India would benefit too, as it now carries a geopolitical risk due to the terror threat.     There’s ample scope for cooperation in Afghanistan as well. Trying to achieve strategic depth in Afghanistan is a policy that will trap Pakistan in a quagmire of regressive forces. Neither can New Delhi prevent Pakistan from playing a role in Afghanistan. The solution is for both countries to work together to ensure development and stability in Afghanistan.     There is no reason why all outstanding issues between the two countries cannot be resolved if there is political will. Khursheed Kasuri, foreign minister of Pakistan when Pervez Musharraf was president, announced at a conference organised by the Aman ki Asha initiative how a deal on Kashmir was within striking distance under Musharraf. There is no reason why it cannot be revived. New Delhi should reach out, if necessary, directly to the Pakistani military and intelligence apparatus. Alongside official initiatives, people-to-people contacts as well as cultural and academic exchanges should be encouraged. The opportunity cost of not working towards lasting peaceful relations between India and Pakistan is too great a price to pay for the people of both countries.
CAUGHT IN RED TAPE As price flares, tonnes of onions rot at Maha port Vijay Singh | TNN Navi Mumbai: Even as the new year brings little cheer on the price front, the famed apathy of our officials continues to move the common man to tears. Nearly 200 tonnes of onions imported from Pakistan are lying at the Jawaharlal Nehru Port Trust (JNPT) at Nhava Sheva while officials pass the buck for not releasing the bulb to onionstarved markets.     The affected traders have indicated that the cargo is stuck for want of a health NOC (no-objection certificate), but customs officials at the port said that they were not aware of this problem due to the extended new year weekend. ‘‘It’s been five days since the Pakistani cargo of onions arrived in 10 containers at JNPT, but due to certain delays, the onions are still lying there, which is worrisome for our traders,’’ Ashok Walunj, director of the onion-potato section at the Vashi-based APMC (the wholesale grain and vegetable market for the city), told TOI on Sunday.     The chief commissioner of customs at JNPT, K R Bhargava, admitted that ‘‘five days ago, my department had cleared two containers loaded with onions; however, no trader came to me after that for further clearance’’. Since no customs clearance took place on Saturday and Sunday, there is a very real threat that the highly-perishable onions might go waste soon.
LEGALLY SPEAKING Can govt do nothing legally to check prices? Dhananjay Mahapatra | TNN     It is the first legally speaking column of the year. One would like to write something to infuse hope in the common man. But, what does one write, when a scam haunted atmosphere is fogged out by an unprecedented rise in the prices of food items.     Scams have not actually lowered the dignity of Indian polity, which has weathered many such frauds, making the common man take in his stride this seasonal precipitation. But, what really hurts a commoner is the seasonal hike in the prices of common food item by traders, wholesellers and retailers who appear to have fine-tuned the methodology. The food inflation figures are misnomers, to say the least. For example, if dal prices were Rs 80 per kilogram at this time of last year and now it is Rs 79, then the inflation figure for it would be in negative allowing the ruling class to go to the town saying that the prices have eased. But does it help the common man if the prices come down by Re 1, which at Rs 80 is still out of his reach?     Take the case of onion. It shot up to Rs 80 per kg. The government, after a few weeks, said that the prices have started to ease when it stabilized at Rs 50-60 per kg. Can the common man afford this eased price for onions? Not very long ago, people eating rice with salt and onion were termed poor. Wish the poor could still resort to onions when they were unable to buy other vegetables.     Five years ago, dal prices rose from a modest Rs 35 a kg to more than Rs 100 a kg. It has now stabilized at Rs 70-80 per kg. Yes, this definitely shows prices have eased. However, the question is where do you compute from the Rs 35 a kg or Rs 100 a kg?     The point one wants to make is this should the government remain a silent spectator to the common man’s woes? Could there be no broad legislative mechanism to control the prices except the Essential Services Maintenance Act (Esma)? The courts do not interfere in controlling of the prices of commodities. They respect sanctity of government policies, largely responsible for rise and fall of prices of food items. Is the steep hike in prices of food items not hurting the citizens right to life? Should the courts, when opportunity presents, not seek answers from the government about general spurt in food prices? More than 26 years ago, the Supreme Court had touched upon this issue in its judgment in the case — Delhi Veterinary Association Vs Union of India [1984 SCC (3) 1.     It had said, “In an egalitarian society based on planned economy, it is imperative that there should be an evolution and implementation of a scientific national policy of incomes, wages and prices which would be applicable not merely to government services but also to the other sectors of the national economy. As far as possible the needs of a family unit have to be borne in mind in fixing wage scales as needs are not static.
BURNING A HOLE IN POCKET Consumer durables prices jump by 10% Godrej, Samsung Pass On Rising Costs To Buyers Namrata Singh & Samidha Sharma TNN Mumbai: If the shooting prices of onions, eggs and garlic were not enough, the latest round of price increase in consumer durables would certainly burn a hole in your pocket. Consumer durables comprising washing machines, refrigerators and air-conditioners have just got costlier by 5-10%.     Companies like Godrej Appliances and Samsung India have already raised prices across segments and are, in fact, contemplating another round of price hikes. Rising metal prices, especially steel, have prompted durable makers to take prices northward.     “Metal prices have been on the rise. There’s no way we can absorb the hike in input costs. We have thus passed on input cost hike to consumers,” said George Menezes, chief operating officer, Godrej Appliances, a division of Godrej & Boyce Manufacturing Co. Godrej has raised product prices in the range of 3-5%.     A 230-litre Godrej frostfree refrigerator, which was earlier priced at Rs 14,610, will now cost consumers Rs 15,210, while a 300-litre one would cost Rs 25,100, which is higher by Rs 800 compared to the earlier price of Rs 24,300.     Indian steel-makers have raised prices in the range of 4-5% across grades. Besides, even copper and polymer prices have been on the upswing.     Korean consumer durable-maker Samsung, too, has raised prices of its products across the board.     While Samsung refrigerators and washing machines would now cost 2-3% more, its air-conditioners will see a 10% mark-up immediately, said the company.     “This is an immediate hike but one cannot rule out another round of increases taking considering the rising input costs,” said Ravinder Zutshi, deputy MD Samsung India.     LG Electronics, on the other hand, is still in the process of deciding its course of action on the price front. LG had increased prices of its products during Diwali and once again in December.     “We are currently evaluating if there can be a possibility to increase prices further as we have taken two rounds of hikes in the last quarter,” said YV Verma, COO, LG India.     Samsung, too, had hiked prices for its refrigerators by about 3% in the October-November period. However, in September last year, when steel prices went up by 4-5%, some consumer durable-makers like Godrej had restrained from passing on the cost increase to consumers so as not to disturb the festive fervour. For durable-makers, which operate on wafer-thin margins, absorbing any rise in input costs is a difficult proposition.     Steel panels account for around 20% of the material used in a product like refrigerator. Polymers, on the other hand, are used in packaging material. Any rise in the cost of these commodities can put pressure on the margins of durable companies.     On the other hand, price hikes can force consumers to defer their purchases. A severe winter and a couple of instances of rainfall in some parts of the country have already dampened spirits, said industry officials.     But these are lean months for the industry. Demand is expected to pick up between February and June. The durable industry is optimistic about a quick turnaround during the peak season.     “We believe Godrej Appliances will continue to grow at a CAGR of 29%,” said Menezes. The Rs 35,000-crore consumer durable industry clocked a growth of 13% in 2010.     NO COOLING • Godrej has raised product prices in the range of 3-5% • A 230-litre Godrej frost-free refrigerator, which was earlier priced at Rs 14,610, will now cost consumers Rs 15,210 • Samsung’s air-conditioners will see a 10% mark-up immediately
Govt looking at ways to avoid fuel hike: Murli Deora TIMES NEWS NETWORK New Delhi: After quietly persuading the ministerial panel on fuels to abandon diesel price revision plans, oil minister Murli Deora on Wednesday went public saying his ministry is against raising diesel or cooking gas prices and the government is looking at ways to avoid such a move.     “We are trying to see that we do not have to increase prices... I don’t think the EGoM (ministerial panel with the Cabinet’s powers to decide an issue) should meet just now to decide on raising prices. In 2008, when crude shot up to $147/barrel, we insulated the common man and provided Rs 103,000 crore from the budget to subsidize fuel,” Deora told reporters on the sidelines of an ONGC function on ‘social equilibrium’.     Finance minister Pranab Mukherjee, who heads the panel, had initially supported raising diesel prices as state-run oilmarketing firms saw their losses rise as international crude climbed to its highest level since 2008.     Planning Commission deputy chairman Montek Singh Ahluwalia still supports the move.<EP,1>But in the run-up to the Christmas, Deora met PM Manmohan Singh and persuaded Mukherjee to abandon the revision since it would put extra burden on aam aadmi, who was already reeling under the spike in onion prices and high levels of general food priceline.     Since diesel and cooking gas together have a weightage of over 5% in the price index, any appreciation in their prices would have stoked inflationary pressures.
Sensex falls for third day on high food inflation Mumbai: The BSE benchmark sensex fell for the third consecutive day on Thursday, and closed down over 116 points, on sustained selling by investors on widespread concerns that spike in food inflation would lead to higher interest rates, making borrowing costly for corporate as well as consumers.     Opening on a positive note, the sensex, shed 116 points, or 0.6%, down at 20,185 as stocks of interest rate related sectors like realty, auto and banking declined. The barometer, which had lost nearly 260 points in the last two sessions, touched the day’s low of 20,107.     The broad-based nifty also lost 32 points, or 0.5% to close at 6,048. It rose to 6,116 and touched a low of 6,022 points during the session. Selling pressure gathered momentum soon after reports of the release of food inflation data and the International Monetary Fund saying that the RBI may have to keep raising policy rates to combat rising inflation.     Soaring onion and other vegetable prices led to a sharp rise in inflation at 18.3% for the week ended December 25, a development that might prompt the Reserve Bank to tighten monetary policy to tame further hike in prices. The RBI had to raise policy rates six times in 2010 to rein in inflationary pressures in the economy, which grew 8.9% in the quarter ended September 30.     The realty sector index suffered the most by losing 2.4% to 2,714 on fears that the RBI may hike interest rate which would impact home sales. The capital goods segment was down by 1.9% to 14,913 followed by the auto sector index. The consumer durable index lost 1.4% to close at 6,312. The banking sector index lost 1.1% to end the day at 12,688 as segment major SBI, the largest lender in the country, dropped to its lowest level in five months by losing 2.7% to Rs 2,625. Among the 30 sensex components, 19 stocks fell while only 11 gained. PTI
Retail rates hitting most Lucknow: The final blow regarding vegetable prices comes from the retailers end. In the wholesale market, the potatoes were costing Rs 4 per kg on Thursday, and in the retail market, one had to shell out Rs 10 for the same quantity.     Brinjals were costing Rs 7-8 per kg in the wholesale market, and Rs 15 per kg in the retail. The prices of peas, tomatoes and even onions varied considerably. Against a rate of Rs 16 per kg, peas were being sold at Rs 18-19 per kg in the retail market. Similarly, green leafy vegetables, especially spinach, were 20% to 30% costly in the retail market.     Vendors and retailers admitted that they were charging high but defended their move. Santosh Kumar, who sells takes vegetables near Wala Qadar Road, said, “We add cost of transportation and bringing the stuff at your door step.”     Geeta Kashyap, who has a retail vegetable shop in Narahi, said, “If you see the vegetables in the wholesale market and the way they are handled there, you will never buy them. We clean the vegetables before showcasing them.” The officials of Wholesaler Association, however, claimed that the prices of vegetables were up by 70%-80% in retail markets. “Prices of vegetables vary from one retail centre to another. A market or vendor near the posh colony would have a higher cost than the one in an average area,” said Satish Sonkar. TNN
VEGGIE PRICES ADD TO CHILL Prices High Due To Low Supply In Wholesale Market As Bad Weather Is Prohibiting Farmers To Venture Out Shailvee Sharda | TNN Lucknow: Vegetables seems to be the latest casualty of the biting winter chill. Even as the common man was trying to come to terms with the prices of onions and tomatoes, the escalating prices of other vegetables has furthered kitchen expenses.     Vegetable vendors association blames winter chill for all vegetables other than onions. “Vegetable prices seem to be directly proportional to winter chill,” said Satish Sonkar, president of UP fruits and vegetables growers and sellers association.     The reason? “Wholesale vegetables markets are fed by supplies from the fields. But bad weather is not permitting farmers to venture out. So, the markets have to do with whatever little they get,” said Sonkar. “Shortage naturally triggers price rise,” he added. Worse is, the price would rise further, if the conditions do not improve by the weekend.     Farmers basically work in the field since morning. But during winters, their daily schedule start several hours after sunrise. Then there is fog, which further restricts their activities. “When we get up, the fog is so dense that one cannot see anything. Plucking of vegetables is different from collecting other harvest. Since one cannot see properly, risk of loss due to wastage is higher, which keeps us away from the field,” said Kanhaiya Lal, a farmer from Takrohi area.     Weather restricting farmers from work causes shortage of vegetables in the supply-chain, which results in price rise. Take the example of brinjals, which are grown by vegetable farmers in and around Lucknow. The cost of one kilo brinjals on Thursday was Rs 8, which is twice the rate 10 days ago. “In the beginning of 2010, brinjals costed Rs 2-3 per kilo in the whole sale market,” said Radhey Pal, a vegetable wholesaler in Balaganj mandi.     Price of peas, the king vegetable of this season, has however shown some consistency. The rate has remained in the Rs 14-16 bracket for the last 8-10 days.     In fact, the cost is expected to come down a little by the next week. Cauliflower and potatoes have also kept the buyers happy. But all the leafy vegetables, cabbage, pumpkin, capsicum and carrots have disappointed.     Rate of onions and tomatoes, which serve as the base material has however continued to bother the people. Against a rate of Rs 26-32 per kilo in wholesale market, onions touched the Rs 46 mark here on Thursday. Buyers picking vegetables from the city market shell at least Rs 10 more for a kilo of onion. Location of the retail market may cause a further addition. For instance, per kilo cost of onion in Kaiserbagh market was Rs 56 while that in Narhi market was Rs 60-62.     Wholesalers association however clarified that price of onion did not alter because of weather conditions. “Short supply is the chief reason,” said Sonkar, who believes that hoarding by growers in Maharashtra was also to be blamed.     “The crisis appears artificial to me,” he said. To note, chief economic advisor to the Government of India, Kaushik Basu also blamed hoarding for high price of onions in the country.     So, is there any relief in the offing? Sonkar said, “Not at least in case of onions and tomatoes. Wedding season (starting January 15) is round the corner and the demand would see a sudden rise. Prior to that, if weather conditions do not improve in a day or two, vegetable prices would go up,” said Sonkar. REASONS GALORE Bad Weather | Flooding in the eastern and western part of the state affected crops badly. This compelled wholesalers to buy vegetables from other states, which fuelled a hike. Reduced sowing | In wake of rising input cost, low profitability and shortage of agricultural labourers, farmers sowed lesser than previous years Proposed transport rates may push prices further     More bad news could be in store for the common man. The recent hike in prices of petrol and diesel would gravely reflect on transportation costs. The UP truck operators association has started working upon new rates after the hike announced in December 2010. But has stopped working in wake of a proposed fuel-prices hike expected to be announced very soon. “If only the December hike is to be taken into account, the price of commodities would go up by 15-25 percent. Cost of perishable products like vegetables, fruit and milk would also register an increase,” said Arun Awasthi, senior office bearer of the association. On what was the basis of projections made by the association, Awasthi said, “Two factors help us derive conclusions. Average mileage given by the truck (about three kilometres per litre) being the first one, while percentage increase in the cost of diesel is the second factor. Taking them into account, we see that transportation cost of anything within UP would swell by 10 percent. If the source point is another state, a 15-20% hike is expected.” Eggs too jumping off the platter     Price-rise may compel many to push eggs off the platter. Ordinary eggs were costing Rs 4 per piece in a grocery store near Hazratganj. ‘‘I bought eggs at a cost of Rs 3.50 from the middle man and the remaining is my profit,’’ said Anil Yadav, a grocer near Kaiserbagh. The supplier revealed that the whole-sale rate of eggs in the city was around Rs 3 per piece (Rs 300 per 100 units). He revealed that about a week ago, cost of eggs was Rs 290. ‘‘there is shortage in supply in wake of which the cost would go up further,’’ he said. Poultry farmers blame it on fog and biting cold. While the dipping mercury has affected the laying of eggs, fog is hampering its transportation. ‘‘the demand also goes up during winters which causes scarcity,’’ said a retailer citing members of the poultry association. ‘‘Do we eat anything or live on fresh air and sunlight?’’ said rishab singh, a young student preparing for medicals, living near Narhi area. ‘‘egg is a staple diet for most of the students in my lodge. and now they are also getting dearer,’’ he said.
Not just food, everything is pinching your pocket Food Inflation At 18.3%, Govt Has No Answer Surojit Gupta & Namrata Singh | TNN New Delhi/Mumbai: There’s fire raging on the prices front. On Thursday, government data only confirmed the pain every household has been suffering for the past few months when it stated that food inflation was at a frightening 18.32%.     What’s destroying the household budget is that it’s not food prices alone; prices across the board are rising. Oil, property, insurance rates, fridges, washing machines, airconditioners, soaps, hair colour, insect repellents, air tickets, milk products, eating out — you name it, and its price is up. In the poorer strata of society, many things are off the purchase list, and for many in the middle class, planned purchases have been deferred.     The government, worried about the political cost of this unchecked inflation, has tried several things from imports to crackdown on hoarders, but it hasn’t really worked so far. States asked to remove bottlenecks in supply chain     Now it has asked states to remove all bottlenecks in the supply chain to help bring down food prices. Will that work? No one’s betting on it.     The spiral in food price inflation to 18.32% in the week ending December 25 has been largely driven by onion, vegetables, eggs, meat, fish and milk prices. The year-on-year increase in onion prices stood at 82.47% and vegetable prices at 58.85%. The increase in food inflation was the highest since July.     Economists said high food prices will persists for some time unless supplies improve. The hike in vegetable prices are, however, puzzling. There is usually a high supply of vegetables in winter and it pushes down prices. But this year the trend is quite the opposite — food inflation for the week ending December 25 has more than doubled from the November 20 level of 8.6%.     The common man is caught in the pincer of galloping food prices and rising commodity prices. Globally, commodity prices are up and that has impacted domestic prices. Oil companies have raised petrol prices 6-8% since June as global oil prices rule near $90 a barrel. The government is bravely holding on the diesel prices as a hike in it would have a cascading effect all around.     Steel producers have already raised prices by Rs 1,500-Rs 2,000 a tonne and copper prices have risen 54% in the past three months on the London Metals Exchange translating into costly prices at home. Cars are expected to get costlier by 1-2% soon.     Rising interest rates as a result of monetary tightening by RBI has translated into higher lending and deposit rates. Lending rates have gone up by over 75 basis points in over a month while deposit rates have gone up by 100 basis points.     As Finance Minister Pranab Mukherjee seeks to battle prices by urging the states to remove supply constraints, his predecessor P Chidambaram has said the government doesn’t have all the tools to contain high food prices nor has it grasped the factors contributing to inflation. Meanwhile, the Opposition parties have stepped up their attack on the government and taken food protests to the streets.     Unless prices come down, or are even arrested, all this political drama is cold comfort for the people.
I-T ‘surveys’ onion wholesalers in UP TIMES NEWS NETWORK Lucknow: The Income Tax sleuths on Friday conducted statewide surveys of wholesale onion dealers to unearth their stocks.     Apart from Lucknow, the exercise was conducted at the godowns and offices of wholesalers in Kanpur, Varanasi, Bareilly, (Sahibabad) Ghaziabad and Meerut. The exercise saw resistance from the wholesalers at many places.     They alleged that the exercise was nothing more than mere harassment because onions cannot be stored for more than 4 to 5 days at a stretch, leaving hardly any scope of hoarding.     Usually sold at around Rs 20, prices of onions shot to a pinching Rs 80 and Rs 90 a kilogramme in some places. Measures adopted by the Centre to ease the crises did help to bring the prices down but not for long. Currently, onion was being sold anything between Rs 45 to Rs 55 per kilogramme in the retail market.     In Lucknow, teams from the I-T department had to face resistance at Naveen market on Sitapur road, where premises of three wholesalers of the state capital were surveyed. IT teams also visited some godowns and offices of wholesalers in Kaisarbagh and Chowk localities of the state.     Income Tax officials swooped on the largest fruits and vegetable market in Eastern UP, the Pahadia Mandi in Varanasi and checked the documents of onion and garlic traders to check their stocks. In Kanpur, officials surveyed three top traders, Vijay Brothers, Shri Sai Traders and Chhedi Lal and Sons; all of whom deal in onion wholesale. Senior officials of the IT department said that the exercise was not a raid at all and that it was a survey to ensure that things are in proper place. The exercise was taken up after a nationwide uproar against the rapidly rising prices of onions and other commodities.     Reports said a similar exercise was undertaken in Punjab, Jammu and Kashmir, Haryana and Chandigarh basically focussing on national level suppliers. According to a senior official of the I-T’s Investigation unit, the surveys started off simultaneously at all locations in Uttar Pradesh since late on Thursday night. “We have inputs on what some of these wholesalers have pocketed during the last couple of months. In some cases, it was more than four times the corresponding figures of the previous years,” he said.     About the seizures, the officer said, “This exercise does not include seizures in usual circumstances. It involves physical verification of stocks in hand, regular incoming and outgoing stock to assess if there was any scope of hoarding. We have taken books of accounts and related documents from some of the wholesalers, which are now being scrutinised,” a senior official said.     Another officer said that the exercise was aimed at compelling the hoarders to push the stocks into the open market rather than assessing their incomes or assets.
Price hike makes the cuppa bitter Sugar Sold At Rs 35 A Kg In Open Market As Against Rs 30 A Month Back Arvind Singh Bisht | TNN Lucknow: While the increase in the prices of vegetables, particularly onions has already drilled holes in the family budget, sugar now sets to leave a bitter taste. It is now sold at around Rs 35 a kg in the open market as against that of Rs 30 a kg about a month ago.     With this, the common man’s cup of tea is to taste sour in this freezing winter. The price impact is already there, as a cup of tea is now generally sold at around Rs 4 to Rs 5 at roadside tea-stalls. The market trend indicates a further increase in the sugar price in the next few months.     The situation prevails despite glut in sugar production this year. The sugar production in the country is estimated to touch 250 lakh tonne as against the annual consumption of 230.5 lakh tonne and a carryover stock of 50 to 60 lakh tonne of last year. UP too is faced with surplus with its production expected to be an all time high at around 64 lakh tonne as against that of about 52 lakh tonne of previous years.     This is seen as the ripple effect of the Centre’s sugar liberalisation policy. Under this, an export of 5 lakh tonne of sugar was allowed for December and the assurance still stands open for further increase in the quantum of sugar export depending on its overall production in the country. A demand to this effect was made both by sugar mill owners and cane growers’ representatives recently at a meeting with Prime Minister Manmohan Singh in New Delhi. The chances for the sugar export are also bright, both in view of its excess production and the rising demand due to slump in its overall production in sugar producing countries like Brazil, Australia, Thailand and China due to bad weather conditions.     Welcoming the export, sugar mill owners said that the present quantum of export should be increased in order to translate its benefit to both cane growers and mill owners.     The export has opened up a new market and correspondingly also increased the scope for profitability of sugar sector, which otherwise was fearful of slump in the domestic market. But this has made sugar costlier than ever in the domestic market.     However, sugar mill owners attribute the price rise to steep hike in the state advised price (SAP) in UP, which has been increased by Rs 40 per quintal/cane to Rs 205 for general variety and Rs 210 for early maturing variety of cane for the current crushing season. They say that running mills at this SAP was an unprofitable proposition. However, contending their argument, Sudhir Kumar Panwar, president of the Kisan Jagriti Manch said, after export there was no reason for complaint against depressing market. “By a rough calculation, sugar mills now hope to make an additional profit of around Rs 3 per kg. At 8.5% recovery, they will earn Rs 25.50 from one quintal of sugarcane,” Panwar said, adding that the government should ensure at least 50% of this additional profit in the form of bonus to cane growers. He also emphasised that the current SAP of Rs 210 and Rs 205 per quintal for early and normal variety of cane, respectively would be a disincentive for cane planting, as farmers had got up to Rs 260 per quintal last year.     However, apart from the the cost and benefit of the issue, the price rise of sugar is surely an irritant to customers, who are already forced to carefully prepare their budget in order to meet the exigency created by the spiralling prices.
NEWS DIGEST CMs asked to crack down on hoarders Under attack for inability to control surging food prices especially onions finance minister Pranab Mukherjee has written to chief ministers asking them to crack down on hoarders to ensure increase in supply of essential items. Sensex tanks 493 points: BSE benchmark Sensex plunged to a 13-month low by losing 555 points intra-day, and ended below the 20,000-mark on frenetic selling by investors fearing an imminent hike in interest rates to tame inflation. 6 villagers shot dead in Lalgarh:Eight persons, including a woman, were killed and over 20 injured when suspected armed CPM cadres fired at villagers in Lalgarh in West Midnapore district. P 9 
Admn to sell onions from fair price shops TIMES NEWS NETWORK Lucknow: In a bid to keep onion prices under check, Lucknow district administration has decided to sell onions from fair price shops. A decision to this effect was taken at a meeting here on Saturday. Additional district magistrate, civil supplies SK Singh said that the order will be effective from Tuesday. ‘‘Onions will be sold from some 200 shops in the city,’’ he said.     He said that there are eight rationing zones in which the city is divided. These are: Hasanganj, Gomtinagar, Alambagh, Rajajipuram, Yahiyaganj, Wazirganj, Chowk and Hazratganj. Every zone would have 25 shops selling onions. To note, there are 750 fair price shops in the district.     He added that wholesalers have also been directed not to stock beyond the permissible limit. ‘‘Surprise inspections will be carried out by the authorities and action will be initiated against those involved in hoarding,’’ said Singh. To note, onion is a listed item Essential Commodities Act-1955 and its hoarding/over pricing is punishable by law.     Officials who attended the meeting observed that on an average, about 150 tonnes of onion arrive in the wholesale markets of the city. Consumption on the other hand was about 30 tonnes. So, there is no demand-supply gap as such. ‘‘Hoarding appears to be the only reason for escalating onion prices in the city. Sale of onions from FPS would help in checking hoarding and keeping the prices under control,’’ said Singh.     On the price of onions, Singh said, ‘‘the rate of onion would be fixed on a daily basis. A profit margin of Rs 3-5 will also be levied on wholesale price so that the traders also do not suffer.’’
Veggie prices go up as wholesale markets close TIMES NEWS NETWORK Lucknow: Prices of vegetables went up further in the city after buying and selling came to a standstill at the Naveen Mandi here on Saturday. Vegetable wholesalers were protesting the Income Tax “raid” on the market and arrest of two wholesalers on Friday.     As practically not a single vegetable was sold in the market, retailers and vendors were deprived of their daily stock. However, this gave the vendors a chance to charge arbitrarily.     A comparison of the rates of vegetables (per kg) on Thursday with their corresponding rates on Saturday revealed that most vegetables reported a significant rise causing inconvenience to the buyers. “Barring potato and a few other vegetables, price of all vegetables moved up,” said Suraj Pal, a retailer in Gomtinagar area. He believed that the rise to be about 25%.     A buyer, S K Tewari, found an irony in the exercise initiated by the administration and I-T department officials. “They were out to bring prices of onions under control, but ended up in fuelling price rise. The rate of tomatoes, spinach, carrots, cauliflower and a number of vegetables has gone up considerably,” he said. Budget for food doubles in a year     Vendor Raju Singh, who operates in Kaiserbagh area, admitted that the prices had gone up because of the shortage. He also said that vendors took advantage of the situation. “Who doesn’t want to earn money. If you will get a chance, you will also do it,” he said. Housewives were extremely unhappy about the additional surge. “This is simply disturbing. The budget for green groceries and fruits has doubled in a year,” lamented Reeta Singh, a housewife. Her neighbour Lila Yadav added, “The expenses on food cannot be avoided. There appears to be no escape from price rise.”     The wholesalers’ association demanded immediate release of its members. President of the UP Fruits and Vegetable Growers and Sellers Association Satish Sonkar said: “The market would open but we have taken a serious note of the way we are being treated. Both the persons were arrested without an inquiry.” TNN
E D I T PAG E M A I L B OX MY TIMES MY VOICE A justified demand The editorial ‘Tread With Caution’ (January 7) not only overlooks the historic six-decade struggle for a separate state of Telangana, but also the deaths of hundreds of agitators in 1969 and 2009. More than anything else, the unprecedented mobilisation of people demanding a separate state is not even considered. There are multiple factors like history, culture, language, development and desire for self-rule that crystallise in a statehood demand. On the question of Telangana’s backwardness, nine out of 13 identified backward districts in Andhra Pradesh are in the region. Besides, is it logical to compare the Telangana issue with other similar movements? Each struggle has its own history, character and aspirations. The demand for Telanagana is a democratic aspiration. If anything, this people’s struggle is rooted in the failure of successive governments to devolve power and develop the region.     Aditya Deekonda, HYDERABAD Help our farmers The article, ‘Onions, At Whose Cost?’ (December 27) by Madhu Purnima Kishwar highlights the plight of farmers in the country. Undoubtedly, they are the biggest losers in the price rise game. Not only have inputs like seeds, fertilisers and labour required for farming become expensive, farmers are not even able to recover their costs of production. Further, the nexus of middlemen, bureaucrats and politicians has ensured that they don’t even benefit from situations when prices go up. Appearing to favour the middle class over farmers, the government must change course and intervene to improve the condition of farmers.     Raj Kumar, MUMBAI Why play safe? With reference to the Snap Judgment (January 8), the third Test between India and South Africa that ended in a tame draw reflects poorly on the number one Test team in the world. A top-notch team’s position must be on the basis of dominating performance and not a favourable turn of events. Australia during their heydays would always try to win matches and not play safe like other teams. The last Test match of the 2009 Ashes is a fine example of Australia’s cricketing flair and courage.     Anoop H, MYSORE
Big traders adding to onion crisis in state Rae Bareli Mandi Stops Supply To City Markets Shailvee Sharda | TNN Lucknow: The next time you have to shell out Rs 120 for 2 kg of onions, don’t curse your local vegetable vendor. It is the big traders who are the real culprits and take advantage of the ongoing shortage in the country. The shortage has not only given them a chance to bargain, but in a bid to make more money, many are even supplying onions to neighbouring states, resulting in shortage in UP.     This side of the onion story came to the fore at a meeting of officials from the department of food and civil supplies and the district administration on Saturday. Rae Bareli’s Lalganj area, for instance, has one of the largest onion mandis in UP. Normally, traders from Lalganj sell a large portion of their stock in wholesale markets of Lucknow. However, eversince the prices escalated, Lalganj’s contribution to Lucknow has stopped. “Traders are sending the stocks to neighbouring states of Bihar, Madhya Pradesh, Jharkhand, Chhatisgarh and Rajasthan because they get better prices there,” said a trader in Lucknow. A sub-mandi in Fatehpur district has also stopped supply to the state capital and surrounding areas. Additional district magistrate, food and civil supplies, Lucknow, SK Singh said that this was an important reason for shortage of onions in the state capital. “Lalganj wouldn’t have been a big factor, had supplies from Nasik remained constant. But traders in Nasik have limited their business to Maharashtra to feed the local markets,’’ Singh said, adding that shortage in Lucknow can be checked if traders in Lalganj and Fatehpur resume supplies to the city. Traders in Lucknow feel that onion prices may be controlled if domestic traders saturate the domestic markets before proceeding to other states. They have also demanded that the government should make efforts to check the export to other states.     Lucknow administration has already contacted civil supplies officials in Rae Bareli and Fatehpur to initiate a dialogue with traders to sell their stocks to wholesalers here.     Officials, who attended the meeting, said that on an average, about 1,500 quintals of onion arrive in the wholesale markets of the city daily. Though there has been a drop in supply, the availability is still more than the demand. According to an official in the Mandi Samiti, Lucknow consumes nearly 800 to 100 quintals of onion every day. Steps to check onion hoarding     In order to curb hoarding of onion by traders, the district administration has made it mandatory for retailers to display form-9R on the counters. The said document is issued to retailers by wholesalers as a bill on purchase of a commodity. The step has been taken to enforce Essential Commodity Act 1955 as onion is also listed as a commodity. “Through public display of form-9R, we can ensure that the retailer is not overcharging,” said SK Singh, additional district magistrate (ADM), civil supplies, Lucknow. Singh said that action will be taken against retailers who do not adhere to the guidelines.     “There is a provision of realising a fine of Rs 20,000 from the retailers under Mandi Adhiniyam,” he added. Singh said that a consumer will be allowed to take two kgs of onion daily after making entries in the register. Meanwhile, a team from district administration inspected the Dubagga Mandi on Sunday. They also interacted with the local traders and urged them to help the administration in keeping the prices of onion under check. “We are trying to maintain the prices of onion around Rs 30 per kg,” Singh said. TNN
MACRO WATCH High global food prices add to woes Sidhartha | TNN New Delhi: The government’s machinery might be focused on dousing the food inflation fire lit by fruits and vegetables but it also needs to keep a close watch on international food price trends.     A report released by Food and Agriculture Organisation of the United Nations last week showed that the Food Price Index—which is a monthly measure of change in prices for a basket of food items including cereals, dairy, meat, oil and sugar—is now past the last peak seen in 2008.     Data from across the globe shows how rising food prices are a global problem and food inflation in China, Vietnam and Brazil is in double-digits.     Algeria has had to deal with food riots, Brazil has warned of trade war and France is taking the issue at the level of G20, the club of the world's 20 most advanced economies.FAO says dairy product prices in international trade are already firm, while world prices of oilseeds, meals and oils could remain firm this season.     In case of sugar, the international agency is predicting relatively high and volatile prices in the coming months. But the big worry is wheat where global production is projected to decline by over 5% to 648 million tonnes due to unfavourable weather conditions in a number of major producing countries, especially in the Russian Federation.     The closing stock could decline by almost 10% this year due to higher consumption, FAO says.“Although India is not a major importer of most food items, high global prices may have affected price sentiment in Indian markets,” said Standard Chartered Bank's Samiran Chakraborty.     In any case, economists and government officials admit that milk and edible oil are two soft spots on price management though India, at the moment, appears to be cushioned from the impact, thanks to projections of bumper food grain and sugar production and low meat consumption.     Besides, some like Crisil's chief economist D K Joshi warn that in the country, small supply shocks, with onions being the latest example, result in steep rise in local prices. So, a prolonged bout of cold wave in the wheat growing areas or poor rains could just be the trigger for lower production and consequently, higher prices.     In any case, in a note, Chakraborty and his team have warned that the recent upward revision of NREGA wages will push up agricultural prices further, and the proposed food security law will provide a further thrust.
Where’s the relief, Mr Pawar? Three Weeks Over, But Onions Still Cost 55-60 Rajeev Deshpande & Surojit Gupta | TNN New Delhi: The three-week deadline that agriculture minister Sharad Pawar had set for onion prices to come down is over. But onions still continue to rule at Rs 60-70/kg. And it’s not onions alone — vegetables still are very pricey. This is adding to the worry of the government already under pressure from soaring prices.     Concerned by this unbridled price rise, Prime Minister Manmohan Singh has convened a meeting on Tuesday to discuss the situation and discuss steps to calm prices to bring relief to millions of households.     It was on December 21 after a sudden spike in onion prices pushed retail rates from around Rs 35 a kg to Rs 70 a kg, Pawar had said prices would remain high for three weeks and then show a declining trend. He was betting on the expected arrival of fresh stocks from Maharashtra and Rajasthan. It hasn’t obviously worked.     Measures like asking states to curb hoarding haven’t yielded success, while income tax raids on traders in Nashik and Delhi have backfired. Angry traders have gone on strike even as there is a slowdown in the arrival of onions from Pakistan. This has meant retail rates for onions in the city were ruling at Rs 60-70/kg Monday.     The Centre’s compilation of retail prices show onion in the Delhi market costing around Rs 60/kg. Even at that rate, the jump in prices is 90% from a month ago. Cooking oil and atta (wheat flour) have also become costlier in the last month. Tuesday’s meeting is not specifically on food inflation alone — although at 18.32% for the week ending December 25 it is serious enough.
62 quintals of onions sold at govt shops TIMES NEWS NETWORK Lucknow: Over 62 quintals of onion was sold from fair price shops (FPS) in the city on Tuesday. Additional district magistrate, food and civil supplies, SK Singh said that the sales would again momentum in a day or two. “The response has been average. But we hope that more people benefit from the move,” he said.     Singh informed that the price of onion was kept at a maximum of Rs 30 per kilo. Each customer was allowed to take only two kilos of onions in a single day after entering the details in a register. In the market however, onion continued to be out of the common man’s reach with per kilo price starting at Rs 42.     “Though we were not hoping that all the people would buy onions today, but the sale figure is surely much below than the average sales figures on a normal day,” said Singh. As per estimates, about 150 tonne of onion arrives in the wholesale markets of the city. Consumption on the other hand was about 30 tonne.     A decision to sell onions from FPS was taken by the administration last week to keep the soaring price of onions under control. For the purpose, 25 shops each were selected from eight rationing zones in which Lucknow is divided. These are: Hasanganj, Gomtinagar, Alambagh, Rajajipuram, Yahiyaganj, Wazirganj, Chowk and Hazratganj. Every zone would have 25 shops selling onions.     Meanwhile, Singh also warned wholesalers not to stock onion beyond the permissible limit. “Action will be initiated, if over-stocking was found,” said Singh adding that onion is a listed item in the Essential Commodities Act-1955 and its hoarding or over pricing is a punishable offence.
Action at price control meet: PC-Pawar tiff over sugar export Surojit Gupta | TNN New Delhi: Differences within the UPA over food management came to the fore on Tuesday with home minister P Chidambaram questioning agriculture minister Sharad Pawar’s pitch for resuming export of sugar.     At meeting convened by Prime Minister Manmohan Singh to discuss measures to calm soaring food prices saw sugar become a key focus area with Pawar plumping for freeing its export, citing an expected bumper crop this year.     As soon as Pawar raised the issue, Chaidambaram retorted by saying that there was no need to take fresh commitments when there were unfulfilled export obligations. The home minister had last week raised doubts about the way food inflation was being tackled and wondered if the government had the tools to tackle the menace. Sources present at the meeting said Pawar had to back down and the matter was referred to a ministerial panel. Govt worried over rising food inflation     They said that the government is worried over rising food inflation, which hit 18.3% in the last week of December, and was changing course in view of a global supply crunch for sugar. It had earlier indicated that sugar exports would resume in February but the recent spike in food prices has led to second thoughts.     There was also discussion on banning futures trading in farm commodities, including sugar, but the PM and his close aides on Tuesday opted for status quo. One factor that weighed in favour of continuing with futures trading was that the recent spike was a result of rising fruit and vegetable prices, where no futures trading is allowed at present. Potato futures are an exception, but retail prices of potato have actually dipped due to improved supplies. Faced with a limited set of options to beat back inflation in view of growing demand-supply gaps, the government has fallen back on short-term measures like cracking down on middlemen in vegetable markets to contain price rise. However, it realises that such crackdowns too can prove counter-productive, as proved by the recent income tax raids on onion traders.     Some immediate measures to reduce the intermediation cost in vegetables are being considered. “It is not just onion prices, sharp increases in vegetable rates is a serious matter. Ther are many layers of middlemen in the market,” a source said.     The cabinet secretary has been asked to draw up a note detailing the action plan which will be circulated to the PM and senior ministers and the deputy chairman of the planning commission. Proposals that will be drawn up would be considered by the cabinet committee on economic affairs (CCEA).     The assessments offered at Tuesday’s meeting show the government is dealing with a limited set of price control options.
Industrial output in November slows to 18-month low of 2.7% TIMES NEWS NETWORK New Delhi: The country’s industrial output in November slowed to an 18-month low of 2.7%, dragged down by a sluggish 2.3% expansion in the manufacturing sector.     The latest industrial data heaped more pressure on the government already battling high food prices, as worries about a possible industrial slowdown gathered pace and posed a dilemma for the Reserve Bank of India which is widely expected to raise interest rates to calm rising inflation. Industrial production data has displayed volatility in recent months but policymakers said the November data needed to be examined in detail before drawing any conclusion.     “If IIP (index of industrial production) goes down and inflation goes up, it will have an adverse impact but I am not coming to any premature conclusion,” finance minister Pranab Mukherjee told reporters.     “We will have to look into the corrective measures so that IIP numbers revive in the coming months.”     Planning Commission deputy chairman Montek Singh Ahluwalia, however, sought to play down concerns saying the economy was on track to grow 8.5% during 2010-11 and the low IIP numbers in November did not pose any concern.     “I am not concerned about the low November number. There is month-to-month volatility. The cumulative industrial growth number is about 9.5%, that is very reasonable considering the overall GDP growth target we have,” Ahluwalia said.     Economists said they were not alarmed by the drastic slowdown in the November IIP number and attributed the moderation in manufacturing activity to rising input costs and possible impact of interest rate tightening. “Am I alarmed.? No not terribly alarmed but certainly there is some concern,” Shubhada Rao, chief economist at Yes Bank said. But she said soft patches in the data such as the decline in consumer goods and consumer non-durables need to be examined as other data show a different trend. Economists said despite the dramatic slowdown in November IIP, the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) will raise interest rates by at least 25 basis points as inflation is a bigger concern than growth. State Bank of India chairman O P Bhatt expects the central bank to raise key interest rates by 25 basis points. Price pressures have risen in recent months and food price inflation shot up to 18.32% in the week to December 25 on the back of soaring onion, vegetable and fruit prices. RBI has raised interest rates six times in 2010 to tame inflation. Electricity and mining sectors remained buoyant in November rising 4.6% and 6% respectively from as year-ago. The capital good sector, a key gauge of industrial activity, remained buoyant growing 12.6% while consumer goods declined 3.1% in November and consumer non-durables fell 6% compared to the same year-ago period.
Veggies to get bitter taste of rise in prices TIMES NEWS NETWORK Lucknow: There is bad news from the wholesalers association. Prices of vegetables could swell further due to high demand in the wedding season slated to begin after Makar Sankranti. “Supplies to the wholesale market has dropped by atleast 30 per cent. Against this, the demand is swelling in wake of the wedding season. This would push up rate of vegetables further,” said Satish Sonkar, president, UP fruits and vegetable growers and wholesalers association.     City markets have already started feeling the pinch. Despite attempts made by the district administration to control the price, onions continue to cost around Rs 45-50 per kilo in the retail. Worse is that onions may go off the shelf very soon. “Onions are a base material for various preparations on the wedding menu. So, the demand would rise and availability would be limited,” said Sonkar.     Price of peas also reported a jump. Against a rate of Rs 14-15 per kilos last week, the rates touched Rs 18-22 mark on Wednesday. Per unit cost of cabbage and cauliflower also doubled (from Rs 4-5 per unit last week to Rs 10-14 on Wednesday). Tomatoes too joined the elite club. On Thursday last, the per kilo retail cost of tomatoes was Rs 22-25 against the present rate of Rs 30 per kilo.     “Price of vegetables in the retail would go up, when they are expensive in the wholesale market,” said Ajay Pal, a vegetable vendor near Hazratganj. Citing an example he said, “Brinjals were Rs 35 for five kilos last week, today, I spent Rs 70-80 for the same. Similarly, spring onion was Rs 50 per kilo on Saturday, while its cost on Wednesday was Rs 100.” He rued that the vendors were also sick of the continuous changing price of vegetables. “We need to invest more to buy vegetables. And the sales slip because of the price-rise. There is infact double trouble for us,” he said. Now, buy onions from govt canteen     Onions will now also be available from the Karmchari Kalyan Nigam Canteens. Lucknow administration cleared the demand of 20 tonnes of onions put forth by the Nigam here on Wednesday. “The nigam employees will take their stock on Thursday, which could be available for sales Friday onwards,” said, SK Singh, additional district magistrate, food and civil supplies. Meanwhile, about 34 quintals of onions was sold from the fair price shops of the city during the day. Singh also said that the wholesale markets received about 670 quintals of onions during the day, which is about 20 per cent less than the usual supply.
Govt readying package to cool inflation     The commerce department is contemplating a tit-for-tat response to Pakistan’s restriction on onion exports, and may impose a ban on import of cement from across the border. The proposal is part of a package of measures to tame food price inflation that will be discussed by the Union Cabinet on Thursday. Among other things, the Cabinet will discuss a ban on futures trading on commodities such as sugar and potatoes.
CASH CRUNCH Govt to control exports, imports to check prices TIMES NEWS NETWORK New Delhi: The UPA government, battling criticism over spiraling food prices and mismanagement, on Thursday announced a slew of measures aimed at checking rising prices but analysts said the overall impact of the steps would be visible only in the long term.     Alarmed by the sudden spike in vegetable prices that has kept food inflation in the 17-18% range, Prime Minister Manmohan Singh met his top ministers and advisers to thrash out a strategy to calm prices. The government said it will review import and export of all essential commodities and impose controls on exports and ease restrictions on imports, including cutting tariffs where necessary to improve domestic supplies.     The government said it will take strict action against hoarders and black marketers manipulating prices to ensure that products reach the markets in a timely manner to moderate price. Cartelization by large traders will be strictly dealt with and states will be urged to ensure that effective action is taken under the Essential Commodities Act, 1955, and the Competition Act, 2002.     Public sector undertakings will intensify purchases of essential commodities particularly edible oils and pulses for distribution through their retail network and also through the Public Distribution System. Exports of edible oils, pulses and non-basmati rice will remain banned.     Economists said the measures would mean larger outlay for improving agriculture infrastructure in the Union budget to be unveiled on February 28. “The impact of these measures will be visible in the medium and long term. We expect to see larger outlays for agriculture in the budget,” Indranil Pan, chief economist at Kotak Mahindra Bank, said.     A government statement said NAFED and NCCF will sell onions at Rs 35 per kg from their retail outlets and budgetary support would be provided for this. The government said the arrival of onions from Pakistan would also help.     An inter-ministerial panel has been set up under the Chief Economic Adviser to review the overall inflation situation. The panel will review trends, read warning signals and recommend action on fiscal, monetary, production, marketing and distribution and infrastructure fronts to prevent any price shock. The committee of secretaries will review the price situation.
Food inflation eases but pressure remains January Drop May Provide Some Relief To Govt RBI Likely To Raise Rates By 25 BPS TIMES NEWS NETWORK New Delhi: The latest food inflation numbers, which showed a marginal decline to 16.9% in the week to January 1, is set to provide some relief to the government which has been battling criticism of mismanagement of the food economy.     Though it remains at elevated levels, even when compared with the previous week’s 18.3%, policymakers can draw comfort from the fact that this is the first time in six weeks that food inflation has eased.     Vegetable prices rose 3.84% week-on-week and were up 71% year-on-year. Onion prices were up 71% year-on-year while fruit rose 17.71% and eggs, meat and fish rose 16.70% year-on-year.     The Congress-led UPA government, which has been under pressure over high food prices, on Thursday announced some short- and long-term measures to combat soaring prices. “We have analysed the situation. We have also indicated that there should not be any panic,” finance minister Pranab Mukherjee told reporters. The dip in food inflation should bring some relief to the government but economists said the Reserve Bank of India is likely to raise interest rates by 25 basis points in its monetary policy review on January 25.     “The index has gone up. Vegetable prices are likely to come down as supplies improve but there are structural issues. Long-term investment is needed to improve supply chains. Inflation is still high and we see the RBI raising rates by 25 basis points,” A Prasanna, head of research at ICICI Securities, said. The index for food articles group rose by 0.2% to 192.9 from 192.5 for the previous week due to higher prices of jowar and coffee (4%), fruits and vegetables and fish marine (2% each) and masur, arhar, bajra, moong, condiments and spices and ragi (1% each). Food accounts for 14.34% of the wholesale price index. The widely watched wholesale price index rose 7.48% in November, easing from October’s 8.58%.     The RBI has consistently flagged inflation as a concern as global commodity and crude oil prices accelerate. Economists say inflation is a bigger worry for RBI than growth. The central bank has raised interest rates six times in 2010 and is likely to hike rates again on January 25.
J U G U L A R V E I N IPL slavery Cricket has become an obsession with those who love the game and those who don’t Jug Suraiya In the mid-19th century Abraham Lincoln fought a civil war in America to free the slaves. In the 21st century, over 60 years after it gained independence, India continues to be enslaved. To cricket, particularly to IPL cricket. This was forcibly brought home by the IPL auctions. How much for this prize specimen on the block! Ladies and gemmelmen, look at those arms, look at those legs! Look at that batting average, those runs, the wickets he’s taken! The ads he’s appeared in! The endorsements he’s made, for everything, from cars to colas, ganjis to gutka! What am i bid for this prime hunk of cricketing flesh, and bone and muscle? 3 crore? 3.15 crore? 3.38 crore? 4.05, from that lady in the rhinestone sunglasses and chandelier earrings in the back? 6 crore, from the gemmelmen in the day-glo safari suit? Thank you, sir! And it’s going, Going, GONE for 6 Big Ones!     Just like the slave auctions they used to have in the bad old days before slavery got abolished. Except in the case of IPL the slaves are not the ones who are being bid for but the ones who are doing the bidding, the megabuck socialites and tycoons, and the zillion other fans across the country glued to their TV sets to catch the action.     There was a time, long, long ago, when cricket was a leisurely game played with a bat and a ball and three wickets on something called a village green on a small, wet island called England. Today in India, bats, balls and wickets are still involved in cricket, but only peripherally so. In IPL cricket (is there any other form of the game?), while bats, balls and all that old paraphernalia are still around somewhere the focus has shifted to the razzmatazz around the sport, starting with the auctions: the prime-time TV slots, the ad revenues to be made at a squillion . a minute, the cheerleaders, the backdoor deals involving sweat equity, the scams, the accusations of matchfixing, you name it and IPL’s got it, in 3D and Surroundsound. Village green? England? Who dat?     If IPL has enslaved us – and there’s no if about it, it has – there have never been slaves happier in their bondage. Onion prices? Inflation? Total logjam in Parliament? Pakistani terror? Saffron terror? Chinese incursions into Ladakh? We swat them away like the pesky machchars that they are. Don’t worry, be happy, IPL’s here.     But what about that minuscule – and never has cule been more minus – minority who out of some strange and as yet undiagnosed pathological condition doesn’t much care for cricket, not even IPL cricket, and can’t tell a Rajasthan Rider from a Royal Knight? What about that wretched bunch of IPL-less nohopers, to which i confess i belong? Are unfortunates like me free of the magical spell of enchantment that IPL casts over the nation? Not really. In fact not at all.     The other evening i was at a social get-together, a dinner party. Everyone was busy talking about the IPL auctions, who’d bid how much for whom, and conversely who hadn’t bid for whom, and how come not. While everyone was busy talking cricket, i was also busy. Busy polishing off the pre-dinner snacks, plus more than my fair share of the buffet dinner.     It’s not just dinner tables to which IPL obsession enables non-IPLwallas like me easy access. Movie halls, restaurants, markets, malls, shops, my daily evening walk are all pleasantly and conveniently uncrowded as the IPL epidemic sweeps the country. Everyone’s too preoccupied with cricket to go anywhere and do anything else, which leaves the field free for me.     I’m so glad i’m not enslaved like everyone else by IPL. Or aren’t i? By becoming so dependent on others’ slavery to cricket, haven’t i become a slave to their enslavement? A slave of a slave? Boy, how slavish can one get. Yikes.     jug.suraiya@timesgroup.com     http://blogs.timesofindia.indiatimes.com/jugglebandhi/ 
Signs Of Overheating How to curb inflation and put the ‘O’ word out of circulation Abheek Barua     Policy makers have reason to dislike the word ‘overheating’. It suggests that an economy has crossed an upper bound of sustainable growth. Any attempt to continue to grow at that rate or rev up further would put prices on the boil. If the current episode of high inflation is indeed characterised as overheating, it would suggest prices would stabilise only if economic growth were to slow down. That would question the government’s claims that GDP growth is likely to accelerate further and climb on a sustained double-digit path. The question is: should the ‘O’ word enter the current discourse on inflation or would that be too alarmist?     There are a number of arguments against the ‘overheating’ view. For one, the received wisdom about India is that the potential party poopers are shortage of infrastructure and skilled labour. Thus the initial symptoms of rising economic temperature should be found in growing power outages, clogged ports and rising white collar wages, not in high food prices. This is related to another common belief that agricultural price variations typically reflect ‘temporary’ supply side problems that given a bit of patience, adequate rainfall and a few raids on hoarders would get sorted.     Finally, the litmus test of ‘overheating’ is whether inflation is broad-based or not. The claim is that since the bulk of current inflation is still driven by food, it fails this litmus test. This view has underpinned the government’s anti-inflation strategy over the past year. The policy-corollary of this has been to treat rise in food prices as a series of somewhat independent episodes of temporary supplyshortages in different items.     This strategy has clearly not worked. Food inflation has averaged 16% over the past year and, with the exception of November, stubbornly remained in double digits. A reasonably bountiful monsoon and a relatively good summer crop have failed to provide the relief promised. This suggests two things. First, the government needs to beef up its supply management apparatus. The second is more ominous. Rise in food prices could turn out to be a somewhat unexpected symptom of ‘overheating’.     I would argue the following. The very persistence should tell us there’s more to it than one-off supply failure. Food prices are clearly getting support from a secular rise in demand. If, instead of treating ‘food’ as a black-box, one looks at the constituents of the food basket in the price-index, the price buildup appears to be in non-cereal categories – things like milk, fish, poultry and vegetables.     This has to be interpreted carefully. First, there is evidence to show a sustained shift in dietary preference away from cereals to these products for the last few years. Second, the ability of households, especially rural households, to buy these food items appears to have increased as higher procurement prices and better penetration of NREGA have translated into higher incomes. While demand for these commodities has increased, the supply side has remained crippled by a combination of post-harvest distribution infrastructure (an abysmal cold chain network, for instance, that results in roughly 30% wastage in post-production) and archaic marketing laws. The result has been a steady upward trend in prices of food products.     This trend, not the occasional spikes around this trend, is the key concern. How can we arrest it? This involves a complete overhaul of the supply and marketing infrastructure and is unlikely to happen overnight. Thus we must accept the fact if demand for food were to continue at the current rate it would put further pressure on an already overstretched food sector.     The problem is that food prices cannot be locked away in a strong-box – they are bound to transmit to other segments of the economy. The most predictable impact is likely to be on wages. Workers are likely to renegotiate wages up if food prices erode their budget; there is anecdotal evidence to suggest this is happening. If an employer is forced to pay higher wages, he is likely to charge higher prices for the products he sells. Thus there is a cascading effect of food inflation that pulls up prices across the board. This would be overheating in the more classical sense and is a risk that intensifies each passing day.     The challenge is not just to dampen food prices but also to prevent these second-round ‘pass-through’ effects. This is possible only if demand conditions soften and curtail overall pricing power of producers – that is, if growth slows down considerably from current levels. This is the RBI’s remit – it can try to harness growth by pushing up interest rates forcing consumers and firms to borrow and spend less. Higher interest rates are unlikely to bring onion prices down. They can however stymie the complex chain of linkages through which higher onion prices could translate into higher prices for cars.     What’s the bottom-line then? For a start, the government has to reconcile to a lower mediumterm growth rate than the 9%- plus it currently seems to target. It also has to accept the fact that there is a serious structural imbalance in the food economy and have a long-term strategy in place instead of seeking quick fixes. RBI’s role and remit will have to be understood carefully. The government needs to anticipate short-term supply problems a whole lot better to prevent short-term price spikes. Finally, it must use its procurement and distribution muscle to ensure the price of cereals is at least kept in check.     The writer is chief economist, HDFC Bank. Views expressed are personal.
MINOR RELIEF Food inflation eases, but pressure on TIMES NEWS NETWORK New Delhi: The latest food inflation numbers, which showed a marginal decline to 16.9% in the week to January 1, is set to provide some relief to the gove r n m e n t which has been battling criticism of mismanagement of the food economy.     Though it remains at elevated levels, even when c o m p a re d with the previous week’s 18.3%, policymakers can draw comfort from the fact that this is the first time in six weeks that food inflation has eased.     Vegetable prices rose 3.84% week-on-week and were up 71% year-on-year. Onion prices were up 71% year-on-year while fruit rose 17.71% and eggs, meat and fish rose 16.70% year-on-year. (See P 15)
World Bank prez backs reforms in retail Surojit Gupta & Vikas Singh | TNN New Delhi: Further opening up of India's retail market would help improve productivity, lead to lower prices and create more jobs, World Bank president Robert Zoellick said on Friday. He also said banning exports of commodities to calm prices was not a sound economic policy as it sends a wrong signal to farmers at home and creates uncertainty in the international markets which then adds to price volatility. The government has taken several steps including banning onion exports as food inflation shot up to 18.32% in the last week of December. It also said export of edible oils, non-basmati rice and pulses would remain banned. Zoellick is in India for a four-day visit. World Bank on Friday has sanctioned $2bn assistance for various projects in India. Zoellick also said that banning futures trading in commodities would not solve the problem of high prices as appropriately constructed futures markets can serve as an important tool for risk management.“If your prices of food are going up it probably makes less sense to have import barriers or quotas or other things,” Zoellick told TOI in an interview.     “As for retail market, over time it would provide better services, more jobs, lower prices, increased productivity. So I think trying to continue to open up the economy would be in India's long-term benefit.”Government regulations only allow foreign retailers in the wholesale segment and prohibit FDI in multibrand retail. There is stiff opposition from small shop owners and kirana stores and political parties to further opening up the retail sector to foreign players. Global retail giants such as Wal-Mart, Carrefour and Metro have set up wholesale outlets in India in their effort to capture a slice of the growing retail market.     Zoellick urged for policy protection for the urban poor to shield them from high inflation. He said among the most vulnerable were pregnant mothers and children up to two years of age who need nutrition.     Costly food items pushed the wholesale price inflation to 8.43% in December, up from the previous month's 7.48%.The World Bank president said the current high food inflation in India and other developing countries was partly a result of the change in dietary patterns due to increase in incomes. He said to ease the supply bottlenecks it was important to expand agricultural productivity and the bank was willing to help on this issue.Any stringent curbs on the microfinance sector in India would be counterproductive, he said, adding that there was need for consumer awareness, greater supervision and financial literacy.
Jumbo Chinese onions to ease crisis? Vijay Singh | TNN Mumbai: The last of the imported stocks of onions, this time from China, arrived at the APMC wholesale market in Vashi on Friday. The Chinese onions are high grade and double the size of normal Indian onions.     The director of onion-potato section of APMC, Ashok Valunj, said: ‘‘A shipping container with 11 tonnes of imported onions of China arrived today from Nhava Sheva. We will not be getting any more imports from Pakistan or China now, as the fresh farm supplies from Pune and Nashik belt will now start flooding the markets.’’     He said the wholesale onions prices are steadily on the decline due to ample supplies at wholesale markets all over Maharashtra. On Friday, there were arrivals of 110 truckloads of onions at the Vashi APMC. This further reduced the rates in the range of Rs 20 to Rs 32 per kg. The highquality Chinese onions went for the higher rate of Rs 32 per kg. Onion trader Sanjay Parakh said the Chinese onions are quite big and heavy, weighing between 250 gm and 300 gm per piece.     Comparatively, a normal grade Indian or Pakistani onion weighs only between 100 gm to 150 gm. This makes the Chinese bulb double the size of Indian onions.
EXCEPTION HERE
After onions, petrol to sting from today Price Raised By 2.52/litre TIMES NEWS NETWORK New Delhi: By the time you read this, petrol would have become costlier by Rs 2.52 per litre. Only a month ago, petrol prices had been raised by Rs 3. So, within four weeks petrol has become dearer by Rs 5.50 to pinch many household budgets that are already tight because of spiralling food inflation.     The state-run oil companies decided on Saturday evening to revise pump prices for the sixth time since the government lifted its control on fuel pricing of last June. They argued that since the last hike on December 15, the mix of crude they buy has gone past $92 a barrel, whereas their last price was tuned to $89-90 a barrel of crude.     While this ‘‘price adjustment’’ — as oil companies coyly describe price hikes — would keep their bottomlines healthy, the common man’s burden is bound to grow. The fuel index accounts for less than one per cent of the overall inflation index, but still this hike will only nudge it up and make the government’s inability to rein in prices appear starker.     The opposition parties lashed out at the government on Saturday describing the petrol price hike as ‘‘anti-people’’. Both the BJP anmd CPM demanded that the hike be rolled back.     To escape the charge of cartelisation, the three oil marketing companies have kept a marginal difference in their petrol prices. IndianOil Corporation, the country’s largest fuel retailer, will raise its price by Rs 2.50 per litre, while Hindustan Petroleum will raise rates by Rs 2.54 and Bharat Petroleum by Rs 2.53.     Petrol at IOC outlets in Delhi will now cost Rs 58.37 a litre. At HPCL and BPCL pumps, the fuel will be sold at Rs 58.39 per litre. Petrol at HPCL pumps at present costs Rs 55.85 per litre, while it is priced at Rs 55.86 a litre at BPCL outlets.     The state-run retailers deliberately keep this marginal difference to avoid charges of carterlisation from private refiner-marketers such as Reliance Industries, Essar Oil and Shell.
Fly in onion soup Have no fear, group of ministers is here Raghu Krishnan     All of us who were promised a Happy New Year by those who matter need not think we have been shortchanged. Didn't the prime minister of the world's most populous democracy promise in his New Year message to the nation “to dispel the air of despondency and cynicism”? Hasn't the economist-turned-FM-turned-PM assured us that “we will redouble our efforts to deal effectively and credibly with the challenges of inflation, cleansing our governing processes, national security and making our delivery-system work for the aam aadmi”? So what if the media tells those of us who haven't yet meandered our way to the nearest mandi that the threeweek deadline India's agriculture minister Sharad Pawar had set for onion prices to come down got over recently, but the retail rate is still ruling at between Rs 60 and Rs 70 a kg, a 90% hike from the level prevailing a month ago?     The UPA government does not rest content with offering the aam aadmi the freebie of cleansing his eyes with natural tears while weeping over a 16.91% rise in food inflation for the week ended January 1, after zooming to 18.32% in December. The promised redoubling of efforts to deal with inflation was evident in the fact that another Group of Ministers (GoM) at the highest level (the PM, the FM, the HM and the deputy chairman of the Planning Commission) met at 7, Race Course Road, at 11 a.m. on January 11, 2011 (and what could be more numerologically propitious than a morning meeting at 11 on 11-1-11?) to discuss steps to calm prices and bring relief to millions of households. If 11 a.m. on 11-1-11 was numerologically a great time for babies to be born, think of the ideas conceived through a process of cross-fertilisation of India's most informed and powerful minds, all focussed on the need to cut onion prices to size! With the PM being a former FM, the FM a former EAM and a former DM (external affairs minister and defence minister), and the HM being a former FM, there must have been enough lateral and     cumulative experience in this GoM to peel inflation off the onion and put any spurt in cooking oil and atta prices back on sim on each stove in every home.     It's only the nasty, cynical types – those who shed not just onion-prompted or opposition-style but crocodile tears – who would talk of meetings being a substitute for decision-making or equate a heavyweight GoM on inflation with King Canute asking the waves of the sea to stop. The original Mrs Gandhi once called corruption a universal phenomenon. So is inflation. And so is cricket. So why pull up our economist PM for not pulling up the minister for agriculture, food and civil supplies for not pulling his considerable weight while tackling rising onion prices which aren’t coming down because the current slowdown in exports from Pakistan is inversely proportional to the pace at which Indian onions were earlier shipped out?     Like the PM said in his New-Year missive, “We need to believe in the resilience of our democracy and its capacity to deal with infirmities and shortcomings through course-correction.” So, if Pawar as head of the International Cricket Council can bring the 2011 World Cup to South Asia and India, Pawar the minister for agriculture, food and civil supplies surely has enough globalised skills to correct course and ensure uninterrupted inflow of onions from across the border at Wagah. What price food inflation, when confronted with a GoM led by the PM?     And so what if AICC general secretary Digvijay Singh once quipped on national TV that people tended to underestimate Manmohan Singh the politician and overestimate Manmohan Singh the economist. We could likewise be guilty of overestimating Pawar the global cricket administrator and underestimating Pawar the minister for food, agriculture and civil supplies!
Winter of 65: Onion, beer, petrol on a par TIMES NEWS NETWORK Mumbai: The recent sharp rise in onion prices, which went beyond Rs 60 per kg in several parts of the country, also coincided with rising petrol prices due to the spike in the price of crude globally. What ensued was a curious phenomenon:Probably this was the first time in India’s history when the price of onion, a basic necessity, was on a par with the prices of petrol and beer.     This phenomenon has now forced broking house analysts and economists to look at the reasons for the recent jump in onion prices and its effect on inflation.     Four officials from IDFC’s institutional broking arm recently travelled to rural Maharashtra—Pimpalgaon and Lasalgaon—the largest onion market in Asia, to understand what has led to this sudden spike in the price of onions and if there was a chance for it to come down anytime soon.The report by IDFC Institutional Securities, titled ‘Onion Rs 65/Kg, Petrol Rs 65/ lt, Beer Rs 65!’, says contrary to popular belief that onion traders were hoarding up on supplies, the main trigger for the rise in prices was unseasonal rain in October that destroyed crops in Maharashtra, the biggest onion producing state in the country, and led to a severe drop in yield per acre of land.     This, in turn, prompted onion farmers to treble the prices at which they sell to the traders.Another reason why the hoarders did not succeed was that the variety of onions harvested in October-November perish faster than the ones harvested during the middle of the year, the IDFC report pointed out.     The bad news for the common man and the policymakers alike is that onion prices are unlikely to fall to the prespike levels for two reasons.     Farmers are expected to maintain a higher price to create a safety net against crop failures.     And secondly, since stakeholders within the whole onion supply chain have seen that consumers bought onion at prices over Rs 60 per Kg, they will try to maintain higher prices even if supply is restored to earlier levels.     There’s further bad news: The unseasonal rain that hit the onion crop, also affected tomato and red grapes, and the prices of these two could also shoot up soon.     “While government interventions in terms of export bans are likely to provide temporary relief to consumers, the threat of sustained long-term inflation is likely to stay,’’ the IDFC analysts, Nikhil Vora, Sanjay Panicker, Varun Kejriwal and Nikhil Salvi, noted in the report.     In a recent report, the broking arm of HSBC said India’s December WPI inflation other vegetables and fruit prices due to weather-related crop destruction.
SOARING PRICES A WORRY PM confident prices will ease by March Says I Am Not An Astrologer TIMES NEWS NETWORK New Delhi: Prime Minister Manmohan Singh on Wednesday expressed confidence that prices would stabilise by March but said certain factors were beyond the government’s control.     The UPA government has been on the backfoot as food inflation shot up to 18.32% in late December driven by soaring onion and vegetable prices. The government has taken some measures to calm prices but analysts say the impact would be marginal in the short-term.     “I am not an astrologer. But I am confident that the price situation will be brought under control... We will be able to bring price stability by March,” Singh told reporters on the sidelines of the Cabinet swearing-in ceremony. “There are certain factors which are beyond our control. Despite the problem, I am confident that we will be able to bring price stability by March,” the PM said.     Earlier in the day, finance minister Pranab Mukherjee met state finance ministers as part of his pre-budget consultations and urged the state governments to play their part in controlling inflation. He urged the states to review all local levies such as mandi tax and octroi which add to prices of food articles and hurt smooth movement of essential commodities.     Mukherjee said issues higlighted by him would have to be tackled collectively without entering into any blame game. He said while the Centre was doing its bit, the states also had to take effective and urgent steps to lower food prices.     Mukherjee asked the state finance ministers to urgently look into supply management of items that are driving the current round of food inflation, particularly local factors that are widening the gap between wholesale and retail prices.     But some state finance ministers blamed the central government for high prices.     “Price rise is not a subject of states. It is totally the Centre’s subject. We are ready to sit with the Centre and arrive at solutions. Inflation is high because of the Centre’s export-import policy,” Uttarakhand chief minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank, who also holds the finance portfolio, said.     Bihar’s finance minister and deputy chief minister Sushil Modi urged the Centre to slash duties on petroleum products to calm prices. “Inflation, particularly in food and primary articles... fuelled by petrol and diesel increases has been a worry for all of us. While price increase due to international price movement is to some extent understandable, the commensurate increase in taxes, which are levied ad valorem, can be avoided,” Modi said.
Food inflation slows in Jan but worries remain TIMES NEWS NETWORK New Delhi: Food inflation slowed for the second consecutive week in January but inflationary pressures remained as prices of onions and vegetables still rule high.     Data released by the commerce and industry ministry on Thursday showed food inflation rose to 15.52% in the week ended January 8, slowing from the previous week’s 16.91%. It had shot up to a year-high of 18.32% in late December, prompting the government to announce measures to cool prices. But economists said the impact of the steps would be negligible. Food inflation has remained above 12% for the past five weeks.     Economists said food prices are likely to moderate over the next two months but overall inflation remains high as there is uncertainity over the extent of decline in food prices. “I don’t think the RBI or the government can draw any comfort from this weekly drop in food inflation,” said Samiran Chakraborty, economist at Standard Chartered Bank.     He said the RBI is expected to raise interest rates by at least 25 basis points when it reviews monetary policy on January 25. The RBI has raised interest rates six times in 2010 and is widely expected to raise rates again.     PM Manmohan Singh has said he was confident that prices would stabilize by March but certain factors were beyond the government’s control. FM Pranab Mukherjee met state finance ministers on Wednesday as part of his pre-budget consultations and urged them to review local levies which add to prices of food articles and hurt smooth movement of essential commodities. Some economists say high food price inflation may be spilling over to other sectors. Headline inflation, which slowed to 7.48% in November, shot up to 8.43% in December due to high food prices. The RBI has consistently cautioned against inflationary pressures in the economy as global commodity prices have soared in recent months. Economists say calming prices has emerged as a larger objective for the RBI than nurturing growth.
J U G U L A R V E I N Fast forward Beat food inflation, gain moksha – all you have to do is stop eating Jug Suraiya The Suraiya household is no longer a land of milk and honey. Particularly milk, the consumption of which as a whitener for tea has been strictly rationed by Bunny. Neither of us drinks tea with milk. But apparently the seemingly endless stream of workmen, mechanics and plumbers who visit the house to fix something or the other that’s stopped working were drinking up a storm, literally in a teacup, of the brew with lots of milk in it along with lashings of sugar.     Having read in the TOI that the price of milk had gone up 24% in the past one year, Bunny put her foot down. From now on it’s going to be just one cup of chai per workman. With not more than two spoons of sugar per cup. Like milk, sugar too, had become upwardly mobile in terms of cost.     And it’s not just milk and sugar. Suddenly everything seems to have become far more expensive than it was just the other day. Either that, or the contents of my wallet are shrinking in terms of provisioning the household. Bunny sits with her weekly grocery list. Is that a list of things that we have to buy this week, i ask. No, it’s a list of things we can’t afford to buy this week, says Bunny.     Topping this don’t-buy list are onions. Headlines, editorials, in-depth articles by agri-experts, and, for all i know, monographs, treatises and PhD theses have by now been written about the price of onions. But this libraryful of literature can’t explain why the supposedly humble pyaaz – the so-called poorman’s vegetable – should kg for kg rival in cost the price of a B class IPL player. More, if the player in question is suspected of being a match-fixer, a charge that has never been levelled against any onion, even one imported from Pakistan.     With the use of onions severely restricted in the kitchen, we began to subsist largely on soup and toast. Till the price of tomatoes went zooming up like one of those Isro satellites that one hears of from time to time. But while Isro satellites frequently come crashing back to earth, not so with the price of     tomatoes, or any other veggie. With tomato soup ruled out – tomatoes, together with onions having been put on the don’t-buy list – we’re stuck with butterless toast. Maybe we should burn the toast, i suggest. But that’ll make it taste even worse than it already does, says Bunny. That’s the point; it if tastes bad we’ll eat less of it, i point out. We could always ring up friends to cadge a meal at their place. But with the price of petrol what it is, what we’d save by eating at someone else’s expense would be more than offset by the transportation cost there and back. And suppose the people we call, also feeling the price pinch, turn the tables and want to come eat with us? Is there enough burnt toast to go round?     What to do about skyrocketing food prices? The finance minister doesn’t know. The agriculture minister doesn’t know. The prime minister doesn’t know. But ancient Indian wisdom knows. Fasting – the voluntary cessation of food intake – has long been a part of our tradition. People of all creeds – Hindu, Jain, Muslim, Christian, devotees of Vandana Luthra’s Curls & Curves – all fast regularly to gain spiritual brownie points. Millions more fast because they’ve never been able to afford to eat, even before food prices rose astronomically. If the country were to go on a collective fast the demand would drastically reduce, creating a supply-side surplus which could be exported, thus wiping out the country’s fiscal deficit and putting the brakes on runaway inflation.     Economics apart, fasting would benefit us physically and spiritually. Physically we’d all lose weight and cut the risk of diabetes and heart ailments. Spiritually, we’d all come close to attaining moksha, freedom from the ‘surly bonds’ of earthly life. But therein lies the rub. Like food – and everything else – suppose moksha too follows the law of demand and supply? As more and more of us entered the market for a limited supply of moksha, would stocks threaten to run out, raising the price of spiritual enlightenment?     Om, shanti, shanti, shanti? More like Om, mehngai, mehngai, mehngai.     jug.suraiya@timesgroup.com     http://blogs.timesofindia.indiatimes.com/jugglebandhi/ 
urban farming GREEN YOUR CITY Farming vegetables and fruits at home in containers on terraces and balconies is possible, and comes with immense rewards, both literal and emotional, says DEEPIKA MITAL     Just google ‘city farming’ and you will hit on innumerable sites to learn what is needed to grow your own vegetables, right here in the city. If you have the willingness to learn, the paucity of land need not worry you. Large containers can take the place of land, kitchen waste can be used as compost and recycled sullage can be used for watering the plants; basically a closed system in which organic wastes are reused instead of festering in dumps and polluting waterways.     Urban farming is not just for the poor, especially when prices of even basic vegetables like onion and tomato are touching astronomical levels. The philosophy of growing what you eat right in the city is not a new one, as across the world there is a rise in city farming. Estimates say that in 1993, 15% of the food production was accounted for from it, by today has grown exponentially. Considering that the world needs to increase food production by 70% to keep up with the rising population, it might even become a way to earn money, especially as farmland gets land banked by corporates for capital appreciation.     Cities cover only 2% of the Earth's surface, but consume 75% of its resources; basically they are black holes that are swallowing our planet. City farming will offer a way to reduce the impact they have on the environment; Asia has led the way, but awareness and practice is also growing in Africa, Latin America - till it reaches all over the world. Even USA, which has no need to do so is looking seriously at such endeavours, to be able to 'give back' to the earth. In Mexico City urban pig farmers recycle up to 4,000 tons of the city's food wastes every day; women in a vegetable-growing cooperative in Bogota, Colombia, earn three times more than their husbands do. In greater Bangkok, 72% of all urban families are engaged in raising food.     Closer home there are laudable efforts from pioneers like Dr RT Doshi, Dr. B.N. Vishwanath, Preeti Patil all of who have shown the way forward. There are constant efforts to promote city farming and educate those interested. So join the worldwide movement and grow your own vegetables - thumb your nose at the onion mafia!     Watch this space for more on 'how' and 'where', along with some expert advice.
Men in black These are tough times for honest bribers Dilip Bobb     Icame upon a group of men in a five-star lobby. They were all dressed in black suits, black ties, dark glasses, mournful faces. It was like a scene from Men In Black if it were made in India and shot by Ram Gopal Varma. Maybe they were bankers or CEOs mourning the Great Depression, i thought, since they all had briefcases. I asked if they were bankers since they were meeting in a five-star lobby. No, they replied, they were often accused of being lobbyists, so they chose the venue, but they were in mourning. Had somebody died? i asked. “Yes”, they declared, “our livelihood.”     I inquired as to their line of business. In hushed tones, they informed me that they were members of NAB, as if that explained everything. When i expressed ignorance, they stood up and said it stood for the National Association of Bribers and they were all life members. I reminded them that the rise in the number of cases involving kickbacks had gone through the roof, including the one covering Parliament House during the last session, and it looked like a son-rise industry, so by any logic, they should be celebrating. They shook their heads sorrowfully. The government, they said, was in a fix over the fixers and had decided to crack down on corruption.     It was the kickback of kickbacks. The prime minister’s pristine image was at stake and also the government’s future. No one, they declared sadly, was willing to take a normal bribe any more. Big Brother was watching, and listening, the police were on the prowl instead of on the take, Adarsh was being demolished and, thanks to Sonia Gandhi’s missive to chief ministers to give up their discretionary powers, it had led to massive disruptions in the bribery chain. Iexpressed curiosity about NAB. They said it was an all-India body formed by people who had based their livelihoods on greasing palms. Only the very highly accomplished and those with proven ability in bribe-giving could become members. On joining, new members were given a secret password, a tin of grease, a briefcase, a badge and a list of people in positions of authority who were, as they put it, ‘accommodating’ – as in, accommodation in prestigious high-rise apartments facing the sea. They showed me the membership badge; it depicted grainy footage of a hand slipping currency notes into a drawer. It looked familiar. I asked why the black outfits. We are the original Men In Black, they declared, since they only dealt in black.     Did they all have to wear the badge at all times? Yes, it was a badge of honour, it proved that you were well networked and well versed in the art of lobbying and magically causing files to move up the chain of approvals or even disappear. It had, they explained, given birth to a Rs 1.76 lakh crore industry, although there were people like Kapil Sibal who were contesting that figure. Now, they saw that industry being threatened by the recent crackdown, phone taps, arrests, resignations, CBI raids, RTIs and WikiLeaks’ disclosures on Indians with Swiss bank accounts. Swiss banks, they explained, were the ultimate and safest destination for all ill-gotten wealth. If Swiss banks were starting to resemble Swiss cheese, what was the future for NAB? They would, they complained, all be Nabbed eventually.     I argued that corruption was certain to make a comeback since it was so deeply embedded in Indian culture. They agreed but pointed out the other reason their livelihood was threatened. Inflation had hit the bribery industry hard, prices of everything had shot up and people were no longer accepting cash. So what was the new currency of choice? They opened their briefcases to show me the contents. They were filled with onions. Their eyes filled with tears.
SEC O N D O P I N I O N Thin edge of the veg If we can’t afford to buy onions perhaps it’s time to grow our own Jug Suraiya Do our experts know their onions? Speaking about the steep rise in the price of vegetables, particularly onions, and what to do about it, the deputy chairman of the Planning Commission, Montek Singh Ahluwalia, made the suggestion that “farmers should be allowed to sell their produce to the best intermediary who will give them and the consumers the best price”. Helpful advice, though more than a little obvious. Like saying that a circle should be allowed to be round in shape.     Of course farmers should be enabled so that they can sell what they grow to the person who gives them the best price, thus incentivising them to grow more, instead of being forced to sell their produce for a pittance to rapacious middlemen who currently control the mandis and jack up food prices at will at the expense of the consumer. It’s an obvious problem, with an obvious solution: permit foreign chains like Tesco – who have perfected the technique of bulk buying and bulk selling – to set up shop in India. In countries where such chains exist, food prices remain relatively stable, thanks to the competition between rival supermarket organisations.     As obvious as this solution is, it is ruled out because of political opposition – mainly by the BJP and the Left, who for once are on the same side of the ideological divide – to foreign direct investment in the retail business. We can’t let these exploitative foreigners in because they might rob us. So much better instead that we let ourselves be robbed by our own monopoly of exploitative middlemen. Keep it in the family, so to speak.     Another suggestion, made by the agriculture ministry, is to have vegetable farm clusters located within a 50 km radius of all large towns and cities. Not a very practicable solution, considering the escalating price of real estate on the growing periphery of urban India where mixed-use residential-cum-commercial townships are springing up every day. To make it economically attractive to reserve such sought-after real estate for vegetable farming, the price of onions would have to be . 1,000 a kg, or more.     So much for expert advice on how to bring down the price of veggies. Perhaps what we need now is some inexpert advice. As always, the most inexpert advice is the simplest. And in this case it amounts to a simple proposition: if we can’t afford to buy sabzi from others, let’s grow our own. All municipal parks, gardens, maidans and other open spaces, all over the country, should be put under veggie cultivation. Who needs grass when you can have gobhis instead, or chrysanthemums when you can have cabbages? To set an example for the nation to follow, Rashtrapati Bhavan should lead the way by turning its Mughal Gardens into a sabzi patch, with the president awarding, in a televised ceremony, a special prize to the mali who could produce the biggest mooli or kaddu.     Lawns attached to private homes should by law be put under vegetable cultivation. Don’t have a house with a lawn, but just a pokey little flat, and rented at that? No problem. You too can do your bit for the cause of ensuring the nation’s veggie security. Grow potatoes and tomatoes instead of flowers in the paudhas perched on your window sill.     Inflation, of any kind, is a self-fulfilling condition based as it is not just on shortages but on the expectation of continuing, and worsening, shortages. If something is more costly today than it was yesterday, it will be costlier tomorrow than it is today. Such reasoning leads to hoarding, and creates further shortages. But with everyone growing their own the spectre of veggie shortages will forever be exorcised.     We need a symbol for this new Green Revolution. Jawaharlal Nehru made the rose he wore in his lapel the symbol of his India. Maybe Rahul should start sporting a pyaaz on h i s lapel.     secondopinion@timesgroup.com     http://blogs.timesofindia.indiatimes.com/jugglebandhi/ 
Food inflation remains above 15% TIMES NEWS NETWORK New Delhi: Food inflation remained above 15% for the fourth consecutive week in mid-January on the back of high onion, fruit and vegetables prices.     Data released by the commerce and industry ministry on Thursday showed that food price index rose 15.57% in the week to January 15, marginally higher than the previous week’s 15.52%. The fuel price index rose 10.87%, lower than the previous week’s 11.53%.     Economists said food inflation seems to have peaked but high inflation is here to stay for the rest of the year. High food prices have emerged as a major policy challenge for the government and the RBI     “We have crossed the peak of food inflation. The high food prices are a combination of both supply side and speculative shock,” N R Bhanumurthy, economist at the National Institute of Public Finance and Policy, said. “There is inflationary pressure across the world. There is a need for concerted effort at the global level to combat inflation,” he said. RBI raises interest rates for 7th time     “The G20 has a major role to play here. People in India will have to continue to live with higher than tolerable inflation for one more year. Tolerable inflation for India is 5% to 6%,” he said.     High food inflation has contributed to rising headline inflation which rose 8.43% in December, accelerating from November’s 7.48%. The government has taken some measures to calm prices while the RBI raised key interest rates on Tuesday. This was the seventh time since March that the RBI raised interest rates to calm price pressures. The index for food articles group rose to 190.8 from 190.6 for the previous week due to higher prices of jowar (7%), arhar (4%) and maize, masur, fruits and vegetables, fish and chicken (1% each). RBI governor Duvvuri Subbarao has said that inflation is clearly the dominant concern and cautioned that there are signs of food and fuel price increases spilling over into generalised inflation.
DABANGG SWEEPS MIRCHI AWARDS! The chartbuster from “Dabangg”, “Munni Badnaam Hui”drowns Katrina’s “Sheila Ki Jawani” in the awards race Prithwish Ganguly I TNN     After listening to the tracks of the Salman Khan starrer “Dabangg”, everyone believed that the songs would be clear favourites at the awards. And so it was. From “Munni Badnaam Hui” to “Tere Mast Mast Do Nain”, “Dabangg” emphatically walked away with the top honours at the Uninor Mirchi Music Awards 2010 powered by Karbonn Mobiles. The grand celebration of music that was held on Thursday evening at the Bandra Kurla Complex in Mumbai also saw Malaika ‘Munni’ Arora Khan win over Katrina ‘Sheila’ Kaif as “Munni Badnaam Hui” by Mamta Sharma and Aishwarya won the Best Song as well as Best Item Number and also a couple more awards, beating the Sunidhi Chauhan-sung “Sheila Ki Jawani” featuring Kat’s hot-bod and belly dancing.     From drama on stage to scintillating performances to courting controversy on stage — Akshay Kumar’s streak of flops in 2010 was made fun of, Sharad Pawar and Suresh Kalmadi came under fire for rising onion prices and the Commonwealth Games sham respectively and a lot more — the musical awards night celebrated excellence in Indian music and felicitated music maestros of the Hindi film industry.     The show was hosted by confident hosts and singers Sonu Nigam and Shaan who made the proceedings effortless. They also showcased the comic side to their personality by laughing at themselves as well as pulling fast ones on their colleagues from the industry.
E R R A T I C A Aman ki Smasha The Indo-Pak veggie war: tamatar makes a noisy shor-ba and dopyaza becomes no-pyaza Bachi Karkaria At the Wagah border, jingoistic crowds from both sides gather every evening to cheer/boo the belligerent posturing of the Indian and Pakistani security forces as the respective flags are lowered for the night. Now, a real battle is in progress there with the maidan-e-jung soaked in blood-red tomato juice and onion-induced tears.     And to think that it started as a gracious, neighbourly gesture. Seeing their Indian brothers reeling under a skyrocket attack of onion prices, the Pakistanis rushed nearly 500 tonnes of emergency supplies to India and the relief of grateful housewives. Aman ki Asha was alive, well and spreading its comforting aromas. But then came a diktat from Islamabad’s commerce ministry. Citing the likelihood of onion prices ‘shooting up to over Rs 100 a kg in Pakistan’ as a result of exports, it decreed that no onions could be sent to India via the land route, which is the most economical one.     This flashpoint was no flash in the pan. The very next day, the Indian side retaliated. Some 50 Amritsari traders announced that they would stop the export of tomatoes and chillies across the border. Rolling their sleeves and their eyes, they hoisted Pakistan by its own padwal, saying that prices of these vegetables in India might skyrocket too if such exports continued. Then, putting their muscle where their mouth was, they stopped some 150 fully loaded trucks from crossing over.     It is not known if a slugfest began, using the rotting tomatoes and chillies, but one thing is certain. An eye for an eye will not only make the whole world blind, but could leave it broke – and hungry – too. Since capsicum is also a major item of export from India, this eye-bulb to eye-bulb confrontation on the border will hopefully end with a Shimla Mirch Agreement. On the other hand, trenchant positions on both sides could Agra-vate the conflict.     If butter sense prevails, we could see a new version of the dinner diplomacy now used to stop war by more palatable means. It began with Nixon’s audacious bid to thaw Sino-US ties. Mao’s supporters had condemned him as a ‘gangster who wielded a butcher’s knife’, and a stunned Kissinger had reportedly spluttered to General Haig, “Al, this fellow Nixon wants to open relations with China. I think he has lost control of his senses.” Yet, there was Tricky Dick knocking back mai-tais with Zhou Enlai in Beijing in May 1972.     Hu knows how much things have changed. The Chinese president’s first engagement in Washington this January was a White House dinner. And, when President Obama visited us, Manmohan Singh showed that he could be as adept as a Delhi socialite when it came to using a fine table to turn the global pecking order to one’s own advantage.     Actual eatable, excretable food is also a serious ingredient of bilateral relations, even of superpower-dom. Witness the hegemony of US agricultural exports. We had our own PL 480 dependency in the early decades of independence. In the 1970s, the Nixon administration was embarrassed by the ‘great grain robbery’ when the American people unwittingly ended up subsidising wheat exports to the USSR. In the ’80s, Reagan banned these to punish Russia for its invasion of Afghanistan.     To return to the veggie war at Wagah, as always, the fraternal ties between the two peoples have not been fried; the conflict remains only official. As an Amritsari sabzi saudagar said, “We are not against Pakistani traders, only against their government’s position.”     Nevertheless, as Shri Kauliflower and Janaab Auberjinnah dig in their roots, you can be sure that no visiting cultural troupes are crooning ‘Jab pyaz diya toh darna kya’.     * * *     Alec Smart said: “How do Egyptians now congratulate each other? With a ‘Mubarak Go’.”     bachi.karkaria@timesgroup.com     http://blogs.timesofindia.indiatimes.com/erratica 
Food inflation spurts again, crosses 17% Onions & Veggies Pile Pressure TIMES NEWS NETWORK New Delhi: Food inflation surprisingly shot up in late January due to high prices of onions and vegetables, piling fresh pressure on the UPA government already battling a string of corruption allegations.     Data released by the commerce and industry ministry on Thursday showed the food price index rose 17.05% in the year to January 22, rising from the previous week’s 15.57%. Food inflation stood at 20.56% in the same period last year.     Economists said the latest spurt in food inflation was surprising as vegetable and onion prices had shown some signs of moderation since December when food inflation shot up to 18.32%. Retail prices of vegetables and onions have eased in the past two to three weeks.     “Prices of vegetables and onions have moderated and this will be reflected in the data in the coming weeks. But overall inflation will remain high for the rest of the year as non-food inflation will dominate in the months ahead,” D K Joshi, chief economist at ratings agency Crisil, said.     Unseasonal rains had damaged vegetable and onion crops which impacted supplies leading to a sudden spike in food prices. The government was forced to import onions from Pakistan to ease the situation.     On Thursday, finance minister Pranab Mukherjee played down the increase in food inflation in late January and said government was taking steps to moderate price pressures.     “Just yesterday, I said that these types of fluctuations take place, sometimes weekly fluctuations, sometimes monthly fluctuations,” Mukherjee told reporters.     “Price rise is always, particularly of the essential commodities and food, a matter of grave concern.”He said efforts are being made both from the demand and supply side to moderate price pressures. Fuel price index soars to 11.61% New Delhi: The government has taken some steps such as banning export of onions and pulses and a crackdown on hoarders to calm food prices. FM Pranab Mukherjee will present the 2011-12 Union Budget on February 28 and economists expect more steps to ease supply bottlenecks and shore up the country’s farm infrastructure. The UPA government has been under attack from the opposition over rising prices.     Thursday’s data showed that the fuel price index also rose to 11.61% in the year to January 22, rising from the previous week’s 10.87%.     Food inflation has remained stubborn for almost a year and now economists say there is evidence of it spilling into overall inflation. The widely watched wholesale price index, the main measure of inflation in the country, rose to 8.43% in December, rising from November’s 7.48% and largely driven by high food prices.     The Reserve Bank of India has raised interest rates seven times since March 2010 to tame inflation and has flagged it as a major concern. It has raised its March-end inflation estimate to 7% from the previous projection of 5.5%.     “On balance, overall WPI inflation is expected to be fairly rigid in January as compared to the provisional estimate of 8.4% inflation in December 2010,” Aditi Nayar, economist at ratings agency ICRA, said.     Crisil’s Joshi said high WPI inflation would continue to attract monetary policy action in the months ahead.     The index for food articles group rose by 0.7% due to higher prices of arhar (4%), masur, condiments & spices, fish-marine, barley and fruits & vegetables (2% each) and maize, wheat, jowar, gram, moong and urad (1% each). Milk prices declined 1%, data showed.     The index for non-food articles group rose by 1.4% due to higher prices of castor seed (19%), flowers (11%), safflower (kardi seed) (8%) and raw rubber (5%).
SUNDAY MAILBOX MY TIMES, MY VOICE Who governs the governor? With reference to “Governors: Badly chosen means badly behaved” (Deep Focus, Jan 30), it is high time that the requisite amendments are made to ensure the dignity of the office of governor. By and large, governors are appointed by the party in power at the Centre. Those with political clout often make it to the governor’s house. Mostly, of course, it is a retirement scheme for bureaucrats, judges and senior politicians close to the establishment. The lust for power makes them prey to political considerations.     Dr S S Venkata Subramanian, via email Mafia vs aam admi With reference to “Trickle Down Effect” (Special Report,Jan30),itistruethatourpublicdistributionsystem is so flawed that the state spends lots of money without benefitting the poor. The kerosene mafia is at the root of a multi-crore scam. According to modest estimates, corrupt dealers, sub-dealers, fair price shop owners and others have earned at least one lakh crore rupees in the last five years from subsidized kerosene. India should follow the Nepal model and bring the price of kerosene in line with diesel. But perhaps we lack the political will to reform?     DS Agarwal, via email Children of a lesser god With reference to “Half a life: Abandoned, adopted and abandoned” (Intersections, Jan 30), we can tackle the overpopulation problem in our country by rewarding couples who decide not to have their own children but to adopt instead. By default, this would help tackle the problem of unwanted children in our society.     Mahesh Kumar, via email India story still valid With reference to “The India story is losing its plot” (All That Matters, Jan 30), it is a fact that this country lacks a business friendly environment. Even so, all that has been achieved after privatization has happened despite multiple obstacles. If Indian industrialists are in search for greener pastures abroad, it is an equally important fact that multinationals are queuing up to set up shop here, every ready to invest millions and billions. Therefore, it may be presumptive on the part of the writer to assume that the current scenario won’t change – and for the better.     Harish Kumar Prajapati, Saharanpur Now, it’s onions vs tomatoes With reference to “Indo-Pak battle of the bulb and berry” (Deep Focus, Jan 30), it is likely that tomatoes in Pakistan will indeed cost Rs 200 for a kilo soon enough. If that happens, both traders and the common man in Pakistan will suffer. That too, simply on account of their government’s rigid stand. Mercifully for them, the Indian government has not taken any such reactionary step, and the ban on tomato export is unofficial and solely the traders’ decision. They might relent soon enough if there produce is not consumed in the local market. Even so, it’s time Pakistan understood that be it tomatoes, onions, dry fruit or woollens, India and Pakistan can flourish by complimenting each other rather than being adversarial.     Gautam Rath, New Delhi
NEWS DIGEST SC: Ensure Hasan Ali doesn’t leave country The Supreme Court stepped up pressure on the Centre to divulge the names of those who allegedly stashed black money abroad while asking it to ensure that one of the main suspects, Hasan Ali Khan, did not leave the country. The Centre confirmed that Hasan was in the country. P 7 75-yr-old ex-minister gets RI for graft: The Supreme Court sentenced former Kerala minister R Balakrishna Pillai (75) to one-year rigorous imprisonment for causing a loss of more than Rs 2 crore to the state electricity board by giving out contracts at exorbitant rates in the Idamalayar dam project. Food inflation drops to 7-wk low: Food inflation eased to a seven-week low of 13.07% in January due to moderating vegetable and onion prices but economists said some pressure on prices is expected to remain in the weeks ahead. Radio-tags taken off TVU students: US immigration authorities have removed radio tags from the ankles of two Indian students from Californiabased Tri Valley University, which has been shut down on charges of massive visa fraud. SC reserves verdict on CVC post: The Supreme Court on Thursday reserved its verdict on a petition seeking quashing of the appointment of former telecom secretary P J Thomas as central vigilance commissioner. It clarified it would not go into the details of the chargesheet pending against Thomas in the palmolein scam. P 7 Order on Q case plea reserved: A Delhi court reserved its order for February 21 on the CBI’s plea seeking withdrawal of case against Italian businessman Ottavio Quattrocchi in the over two-decade-old Bofors payoff scam. Five NDFB militants held: Five NDFB militants, including two top leaders were arrested on Thursday along with a local sympathizer from Meghalaya's Ri Bhoi district.
Agriculture experts worry over soil quality, degradation TIMES NEWS NETWORK Lucknow: Farmers from all over the country on Saturday expressed their concern over soil degradation here at an interactive session held for them at the 10th Agricultural Science Congress.     Farmers represented by 60 representatives selected from different states felt that soil degradation was emerging as a major constraint in increasing country’s productivity and therefore had farreaching impact on the food security mission.     The panelists for the session included NK Tyagi,member, agriculture scientists recruitment (ASR) board, RL Yadav, director, Indian Cane Research Centre and Sudhir Kumar Panwar, president, Kisan Jagriti Manch.     According to farmers, soil degradation was common to all parts of the country and the reasons attributed to this are the profound use of pesticides and fertilisers. The only answer to the problem, they suggested, is to promote organic farming and encourage natural manure instead of chemical ones.     They also demanded an effective check on the sale of spurious pesticides and fertilisers, which are extremely damaging to the health of the soil. On the occasion, farmers from Uttrakhand, Gujarat and MP also spoke on the issue and illustrated the success stories of organic farming in their regions.     Sharing the concern of farmers, Sudhir Kumar Panwar said that there was need to develop a roadmap for checking soil degradation and treat it as part of the food security mission in the country. He said scientists need to develop a technology that could be used by farmers for checking the health of their soil.     As for UP, he lamented the lack of coordination between different agencies and lack of facilities for soil testing and said that organic farming could be encouraged in the state with the support of the government.     He also emphasised the need for availability of hybrid seeds and said research-oriented programmes should be encouraged in agriculture in order to increase agricultural yield.     Referring to researches, he said that technology should also be developed in a manner in which it could also be used by small and marginal farmers. This was critical to bridge the gap of labourers in agricultural sector, which was becoming unproductive due to small holdings and a variety of other constraints.     “The biggest problem is that of labour shortage,” Panwar said adding that this was because the wages in agricultural sector remained almost stagnant over the years, as compared to that of other sectors. Thus labourers were now preferring to work on schemes under the MNREGA and other construction works rather than in agricultural sector.     In order to strike a balance between the supply and demands, he said a mechanism needs to be developed, which would ensure maximum returns to farmers. This would also not create artificial scarcity or problems of plenty of any agricultural produce.     “Onion which touched a price of Rs 100 a kg only two months back, was now in plenty and sold at a throw away price of Rs 2 to Rs 3 a kg in Nasik, the main cultivation centre of onion in the country,” Panwar said and added that in UP’s context, this was also true about potato, which did not find buyers during its harvesting season and was sold at a very high price in off season.
Food inflation eases to 2-mth low in early Feb TIMES NEWS NETWORK New Delhi: Food inflation eased in early February as supplies of vegetables improved, bringing relief to policymakers who have been battling criticism over soaring prices.     Commerce ministry data released on Thursday showed the food price index rose 11.05% in the year to February 5, slowing from the previous week’s 13.07%. Food inflation had shot up to 18.32% in late December and stayed above 15% for a significant period but has moderated since late January as supplies improved. Spiralling onion and vegetable prices had contributed signficantly to the sharp increase in food inflation.     Economists said that despite the moderation in the past two weeks, pressure remained and there was a need to closely monitor food prices in the weeks ahead.     “Even as primary articles’ inflation has moderated, there are still risks due to the global conditions of supply- demand mismatch,” said Indranil Pan, chief economist at Kotak Mahindra Bank.     “The current week’s food inflation numbers are lower due to a significant dip in vegetable prices that might not sustain in coming weeks,” he added.     FM Pranab Mukherjee said the sharp moderation in food inflation should help overall inflation to come down in the next two months. Policymakers have been forced to change their year-end inflation estimates as prices remained stubborn. Inflation stood at 8.23% in January.
Govt lifts ban on onion exports as prices drop TIMES NEWS NETWORK Cheaper Veggies Stall Rising Prices Mkts Gain For 5th Straight Day New Delhi: The government on Thursday decided to lift the ban on onion export following a steep fall in domestic prices that resulted in protests from farmers and Maharashtra politicians. The decision was taken by the empowered group of ministers (EGoM) on food, headed by finance minister Pranab Mukherjee, though an official notification is still awaited.     But as a precautionary measure against the possibility of prices shooting up again, the EGoM decided to allow shipments of onions at a Minimum Export Price (MEP) of $600 (about Rs 28,000) a tonne, a senior government official said.     The ministerial panel met in the absence of agricultural minister Sharad Pawar, food minister K V Thomas and commerce minister Anand Sharma. The meeting was attended by defence minister A K Antony, home minister P Chidambaram and deputy chairman of Planning Commission Montek Singh Ahluwalia. An official of agricultural cooperative Nafed, which used to regulate onion exports, said the restriction on exports by MEP of $600 per tonne would not encourage overseas shipments.     The government had banned onion exports in December 2010 to augment domestic supply and contain rising onion prices, which had touched Rs 70-80 per kg. The measure, along with action against hoarders and arrival of fresh crop, led to crash in prices to Rs 4-12 kg in the wholesale market, leading to protests in Nashik and other growing areas of Maharashtra.
Govt bans milk powder exports to cool prices TNN & AGENCIES New Delhi: The government on Friday banned milk powder and casein exports in a bid to calm price pressures.     Milk prices have shot up in recent weeks both at the retail and wholesale level and have contributed significantly to soaring food inflation. Food inflation in the year to February 5 stood at 11.05%. Spiralling food prices have remained a policy headache for the government. India is the world’s largest milk producer. The ban on exports is effective immediately and would be in place until further orders, the commerce ministry said.     “The export of milk powders (including skimmed milk powder, whole milk powder, dairy whitener and infant milk foods), casein and casein products has been prohibited,” the Directorate General of Foreign Trade (DGFT) said.     The move to ban export of milk powder follows a meeting of the panel of ministers which met on Thursday to review the price situation. The government last month had withdrawn export incentives on these products. India exported milk powder and casein worth Rs 500 crore in the last fiscal. The DGFT also said onion exports are allowed through state trading enterprises (STEs). “The export of onions is now allowed through STEs subject to applicable minimum export price (MEP) depending upon the variety of onions,” it said.
S N A P J U D G M E N T
Living the dream It’s never too late for the perfect job Gopinath Mavinkurve     At last, a dream job offer! "You have a job offer! Would you like to be a police officer? Please click on the link below," said an email from an old friend. A dream job, what with all that i could collect including the royal salutes i would get, i thought. But who would offer someone on the wrong side of 50 a job in the police force, i wondered? Had my old friend married the police chief's daughter, i tried to recollect – and in any case, why would my friend who had not bothered to keep in touch all these years except for a friend request on a social networking site, want to pass on this opportunity to me?     Never mind, i told myself – if he had such a lucrative offer for me, it was for me to grab it and enjoy the good times that come along with it, not to question it to extinction. I would begin my day with the kanda-poha at the 'zunka bhakar' stall, which incidentally did not sell any zunka-bhakar. I could now amble into the closest sabzi mandi and the vendors squatting there would hand over a bunch of the green veggies – all for free! All the farm produce would be my privilege, although out of reach for the common man on the street – real farm produce, mind you, the stuff which we sit down to at lunch and relish, not the colourful, exotic ones on Farmville. Then i would be entitled to my pav-bhaji at the street corner vendor who had put up his stall in the middle of the road flouting all urban rules. Several 'chai-paani's awaited me!     Being a cop, i would no more be the aam admi reeling under the burden of the spiralling food price index that stoked the inflation fire in our country. I     would be khaas – not aam! No more meaningless ranting about rising prices on my blog – just do the daily beats around town and find your choicest picks for your family's living needs. I was elated. I had always regretted not having chosen the enviable IRS or IAS career options at the appropriate juncture in my career. It could've been a great life if i had, what with plum postings and lucrative inflows guaranteed to come my way, which was assured once i was deeply ensconced in the bureaucratic race.     I even convinced myself about how i was cut out for the job – being suspicious in nature, i was not the kind to fall into the trap of the several forms of windfalls – of millions of dollars and pounds to be claimed – by way of inheritance, lotteries or for simply being the claimant of my email account, which i was often informed to be a lucky one. Never the easy pawn for such clever trappings, one had always avoided responding to such spurious offers.     One had also been wiser by the steady advice from friends which warned me about the perils of clicking on files with bizarre sounding titles like 'Black President in the White House' or any other enticing titles. But this was a lucrative job offer!     So what was i waiting for when life's greatest opportunity was a knock, er, a click away? Click! A new window opened up to Citiville, another game on the social networking site, Facebook, on the lines of Farmville and Fishville. "Allow access?" it asked me, when, thankfully, realisation dawned upon me – that i would have to make do with the onions without stench and live on that Farmville produce, and bid goodbye to the moolis and the moolah i was dreaming about!
LEGALLY SPEAKING Abandon rule of law and pay the price Dhananjay Mahapatra | TNN     Prime Minister Manmohan Singh rallied in defence of his scam-scarred government and said, “Wherever I go, people marvel that there is a country like India, a country of a billion people, a functioning democracy, committed to the rule of law, committed to respect for all fundamental human freedoms and yet managing to grow at the rate of 8-9% per annum.”     But constant media glare on corruption has deeply anguished an honest PM. He promised to bring the guilty to book and advised the media to exercise restraint. “In projecting these events, an impression has gone round that we are a scam-driven country and that nothing good is happening in our country,” he said.     The discernible issues in his interaction with electronic media editors were commitment to rule of law and a sense of shame over the scams that forced action against those who were part of his team or close to the establishment.The present situation in which the PM finds himself in would not have been precipitated had the government held rule of law to be sacrosanct, applicable to all with equal vigour and acted ruthlessly against those breaching it.     A story about an old woman living in a small yet rich village will not be out of place here. A young visitor to the house was surprised to find the old woman’s husband engaged with friends in a game of gambling, right in the morning. The visitor asked the lady, “Isn’t it bad to gamble?” The woman said, “Oh! Surely, it is very bad. No one should indulge in it as it brings ruin.” Surprised even more, the visitor asked, “Then why don’t you tell him not to gamble?” Giving a wicked smile, the lady drew the visitor inside while saying, “I want to. But you know, the old man always wins the bets.”     If the PM tells people that there is a coalition dharma which sometimes obfuscates rule of law in the course of governance, then despite his personal honesty, people will be compelled to point fingers and he will always feel the pain. When sanctity of rule of law gets compromised by vested interests, like coalition dharma, then, it loses its purity and makes the government’s intention suspect.     A normally resilient common man is ever ready to battle out the most calamitous situations if he finds there is fairness in governance where rule of law applies to everyone in equal rigour. What has hit his resilience in the last two decades is the unending stream of scams polluting every conceivable sector. From fodder to sugar, from stock markets to arms purchases, from power plants to fertiliser imports, from laying roads and highways to mining minerals, from housing sector to onions and vegetables, from bureaucracy to judiciary, from stamp papers to palmolein, the poisonous effect of scams has enveloped everything, costing the nation, according to one estimate, Rs 80 lakh crore since 1992.The country minimised the impact of global recessionary trend and showed a healthy growth. But does this mean rule of law can be winked at. The importance of rule of law was lucidly explained by Justice S H Kapadia in his concurrent judgment in 2005 in a case where the YSR Reddy government advised the Andhra Pradesh governor to pardon a murder convict because he was a good Congressman. Justice Kapadia had said, “Consideration of religion, caste or political loyalty is irrelevant and fraught with discrimination. These are prohibited grounds. Rule of law is the basis for evaluation of all decisions.”So, coalition dharma or any other consideration could not have made the PM go by the bald assurances of a minister belonging to an assertive southern ally who attempted to pull wool over everyone’s eyes. The minister had made the PM shed his suspicion by promising to follow rules, but went on to distribute a national asset like spectrum at very subsidised rates to chosen corporate as if it were his family property.
What’s your number? Greed is an unbearable limitlessness of being Prashant Agrawal     ‘What’s your number?’ is a common question at business schools. Before anyone has any illicit thoughts, the number refers to how much money you need to retire. The question, rephrased, being: how long does one have to slog at a consultancy, hedge fund, private equity or investment bank before retiring.     Depending on the person, the answer ranges. Some will say 10 crore and a house. The 10 crore provide 50 lakh a year in interest to pay for living expenses. That would allow good food, a nice car, some help and education for the children. For others, 10 crore will be too little; they need 50 crore and two houses, the second being a summer house in Goa or the hills. Spending per year would be more along the lines of two crore. This would lead to nice business-class travel to foreign locales, shopping, meals at Michelin star restaurants and education for the children at the best schools. Of course, there are the super extravagant needing 100 crore. That gets a supersize lifestyle with all the fixtures.     It’s a fun, late-night conversation that happens over beer. Pankaj Mishra and Arundhati Roy would be aghast, but the business school students mean no harm. They’re just daydreaming. The question, though, is how these conversations go in Parliament or state legislatures. Do MPs, MLAs or ministers sit back and discuss their “number” to retire?     Is it 100 crore, 200 crore or 500 crore? How much money does one need, not to lead just a good life in India, but an extravagant one? Take 50 crore for a magnificent mansion. Add two lakh for food each month (the     price of onions has gone up), five lakh for travel (petrol is getting     dearer), two lakh for help (must treat the people right), one lakh     for electronics (ironically, telecom prices are going up), another     two lakh for education (you have to care for your future) and     another four lakh for miscellaneous expenses. That adds up to 16 lakh a month or two crore a year. Take a normal lifespan of another 50 years and you get a 100 crore. Add another 100 crore for inflation. That’s 250 crore: $60 million.     Let’s nearly double that to $100 million. Is that a number that would satisfy politicians? It seems not. The numbers from the 2G scam, the land scams, the defence scams, the Isro scam, the sports scams etc, all suggest that our politicians don’t have a number. There seems to be no limit to their appetite. And that makes no sense.     The average Indian will earn less than a lakh this year. One lakh. To earn 100 crore will take 10,000 years or 100 lifetimes. An average Indian would have been able to discuss Manu’s laws with the man himself, sit under the banyan tree with Buddha, marvel at the making of the Asoka pillar, contemplate God at the Sun Temple as it was made, dine with Akbar, serve as a scribe to Tulsidas, fight the British in 1857, mourn the martyrs of Jallianwala Bagh, march with Gandhi, hear Nehru’s Tryst with Destiny speech, shake a leg with Amitabh Bachchan, and witness India’s World Cup victory in 1983 and 2011 (about to happen). Yet, the average Indian, earning an average Indian salary, would not be able to earn as much as some netas have earned in a single deal in 2010.     There has to be one politician who is full up, who has had his full share of cash and said enough: “Now, dear countrymen, i am full. I want to put all my efforts into helping the people without recompense.” There has to be a number that politicians reach where they say this. Maybe those MBA students can help us figure out what that number is?
Food inflation dips to 3-month low TIMES NEWS NETWORK New Delhi: Food inflation slowed to single digit in late February led by moderation in vegetable and onion prices as supplies improved on the back of robust harvest.     But economists said the RBI is likely to raise interest rates again in its upcoming policy review as overall prices continue to remain high.     The commerce and industry ministry data showed the food price index rose 9.52% in the year to February 26, slowing from the previous weeks 10.39%. This was the lowest food inflation in three months. Food prices led by onions and vegetables had shot up in late December and have remained high for 12 weeks despite moderation in the past few weeks.
J U G U L A R V E I N Glorious golmaal Total uncertainty of performance makes both our cricket and our sarkar exciting Jug Suraiya Will India win the World Cup like it did way back in 1983? Will it at least reach the finals? Will it reach the semis? OK, OK, will it for God’s sake manage to beat Burkina-Faso or will it get beaten by it, which would really be one hell of an upset because Burkina-Faso hasn’t put up a World Cup team and as far as anyone including Jagdish Dalmia knows doesn’t even play cricket?     Everyone in India is talking World Cup. And about how India will fare in it. Regarding which there seem to be as many opinions and points of view as there are people airing them. Because no one – not even the team members, including the captain, perhaps l e a s t of all the team members, including the captain – knows how the Indian team will perform.     That’s the great thing about the Indian cricket team. Not just this cricket team but all Indian cricket teams ever since they invented cricket, or invented teams. Indian cricketers are, and always have been, totally and completely and bafflingly unpredictable. One day they’ll play like world-class champs, as they did in 1983. The very next day – or maybe even on the very same day, if they’re doing overtime – they’ll play like world-class chumps who’d get themselves beaten to a pulp by the Mahjong Ladies Circle of West Yonkers.     Just suppose the Indian team showed consistent brilliance and won every match it played. How predictable it would all be. How boring. What would everyone have to talk about, speculate about, get into arguments about if one didn’t know, from moment to moment, from match to match, whether it was time to bring out the ladoos of celebration or the rotten tomatoes of derision and disdain?     By always keeping us guessing, the Indian cricket team brings unfailing and unflagging excitement into our lives. As does our equally unpredictable sarkar. It’s a moot point whether our cricket team learnt its unpredictability from our sarkar or if it was the other way round. But our sarkar, our government – not just this government but all governments that have gone before it and all the governments that will come after it – is and has been and always will be as unpredictable in its performance as our cricketers. If anything, even more so than our cricketers.     One minute our sarkar is telling us all about the 9% growth it’s about to achieve, and how our economy is going to overtake that of China’s before you can say Veg Manchurian. The next minute, or in the very same minute, we’re told how some elements of the same sarkar have scammed the country of hundreds of lakhs of crores. If the sarkari economy is growing at 9%, the scamkari economy seems to be growing at 90%, or 900%.     What’s true of the macro picture is even truer of the micro picture of our dayto-day lives and how they are governed – or rather misgoverned – by our sarkar. When will the lights next go off without warning leaving you literally in the dark about what’s happened to the bijli? When will the water tap suddenly go dry, making you go to school, office, kitty party all sweaty and unwashed? What will be the price of onions when you go to the bazaar to buy them? When will the Grand Canyon disguised as a pothole on the road outside your house get repaired? No one knows the answers to these and a million such questions. Least of all the sarkar.     And it’s all these unanswered – unanswerable? – questions that give us so much to talk and argue about, to get excited and het up about. Suppose we lived in a country like Singapore, or Switzerland, which worked with clockwork precision and where everything was tickety-boo the whole time. How monotonously dull and boring it would be. But thanks to our unpredictable sarkar, we are saved from this fate worse than dearth.     So, will India win the World Cup? It already has. The World Cup of unpredictable excitement and chaos if not that of cricket. Howzzat!     jug.suraiya@timesgroup.com     http://blogs.timesofindia.indiatimes.com/jugglebandhi/ 
Food inflation rises to 8.74% on fruit prices New Delhi: Reversing a three-week declining trend, food inflation shot up to 8.74% for the week ended April 9 from 8.28% in the previous week on account of expensive fruits, protein-based items and onions, according to the official data released on Thursday.     The surge from the last week, which was incidentally the lowest in a-year-and-half, is likely to put more pressure on the government looking bewildered after the overall inflation for March overshot its forecast of 8%. Headline inflation last month was recorded at 8.98%. Prime Minister Manmohan Singh on Thursday said persistent inflation, especially in the food sector, had become a cause for concern.     While calling for increasing productivity and production in the agriculture sector, he said, “The needs of a growing and increasingly more prosperous population can only be met by enhanced production of a diversified basket of agricultural products.”     Singh’s concern stems from what appears to be an embedded spike in prices of fruits, egg, meat and fish. PTI
PINCHING HARD Food inflation up, RBI set to hike key rates TIMES NEWS NETWORK New Delhi: Ahead of the Reserve Bank of India’s monetary policy statement next week, food inflation went up marginally to 8.76% for the week ended April 16 compared to 8.74% in the previous week. During the week, prices of fruits went up 28.43%, while egg, meat and fish prices rose by over 12%. Onions, which had become a political hot potato, saw a near 11% rise on a year-on-year basis.     The good news was that food price index dipped marginally and economists expect food inflation to moderate in the coming months. But with oil and commodity prices remaining at elevated levels, economists are predicting further increase in policy rates next week. While a 25 basis point increase is a given, economists are saying that RBI could opt for a steeper 50 basis point increase (100 basis points = one percentage point).     “While the base case is that of the RBI hiking rates by 75-100 basis points through the year, due to inflationary pressures... the current debate now is whether it hikes by 25 bps or 50 bps on May 3. We place the odds at 60:40 for a 25 bps hike. Apart from rate hikes, a key factor to watch out for is the RBI's guidance on growth and inflation,” Citi economist Rohini Malkani said in a note.     “With the rise in inflation related to non-food manufactured products in March 2011 and the anticipated increase in the prices of some petroleum products, the RBI is expected to maintain its anti-inflationary stance and hike the repo and reverse repo rates by 25 basis points in the upcoming review of monetary policy,” Icra economist Aditi Nayar added.     RBI governor D Subbarao is due to hold consultations with finance minister Pranab Mukherjee ahead of Tuesday’s announcement. We will talk with RBI governor before he announces the monetary policy. We will have a discussion,” Mukherjee said, while maintaining that food inflation numbers were in line with recent trends. The central bank and the government had misread the price situation last year and latest data showed the inflation was estimated at 8.98%, higher than estimates put out by the finance ministry (7.5%) and RBI (8%). Subbrao has already hiked policy rates eight times since March 2010 to get a firmer grip over inflation, which economists say is headed upwards.     “Inflation will continue to be a major concern, unless there is an improvement in the situation in the Middle East and North Africa and oil prices come down. Inflation is also expected t remain firm because of administered coal prices increases and stickiness in manufactured nonfood products inflation,” research agency NCAER said in a statement on Thursday.     Corporate India's confidence level in doing business declined in April-June period to its lowest level in six quarters due to rising prices and global uncertainties, an NCAER-MasterCard Worldwide Index of Business Confidence survey revealed. At the present level this is the lowest confidence level seen in the last six quarters.
City folks feel petro hike pinch TIMES NEWS NETWORK Lucknow: Impending hike in petrol diesel prices and substantial increase proposed in the rates of cooking gas left Reema Singh worried on Tuesday evening. “Running the family becomes a bigger challenge each time the petro prices surge,” she said. Lamenting those responsible behind the proposed increase, her neighbour, Kavita Gautam said, “Why don’t they increase it once and for all. Or come up with a formula that ensure periodic but predictable hike.”     The concerns are legitimate. After all, prices of everything will go up proportionally. President of fruit and vegetable vendors association, Satish Sonkar said, “When transportation cost will increase, the burden is bound to fall on the common consumer. Vegetables and fruits would become expensive.” The reason was that a significant proportion of vegetables (say about 40-45%) especially onions and tomatoes are imported from other states. Going by the proposed rate of increase, the cost of vegetables and fruits could see an increase of 15-20 percent.     Cost of dairy products could also go up. “In fact the entire demand supply chain will be affected,” claimed a member of the transporter’s association. He said that food grains, dairy and poultry products would specially witness a difference. This would reflect in terms of surging price of bakery products, ration and items of household use, which is enough to disturb a household budget,” said Amita Sinha, a housewife.     College students are also unhappy over the proposals. “I am sure a time is going to come when people would use cycle instead of motor bikes and petrol driven vehicles,” lamented Arjun Mishra, a student of Lucknow University. Officer goers were equally upset. “There’s a yawning gap between fuel costs and corporate HR policies. Conveyance allowance doesn’t grow at this rate,” said Shailendra Kumar Singh, manager with a telecom operator.     Meanwhile, petrol pump owners found the occasion a chance to hoard as the proposed hike was expected to get effective from midnight. Though people bee-lined outside filling stations, owners claimed that they had no stock or that there was some problem in system. “I thought of getting the tank of my car full in a bid to save some money, but the owners denied us petrol. When we asked for a reason, the manager said that there was no stock left because of panic buying,” said CK Singh, faculty with a private college.
Anticipation of diesel price hike may trigger hoarding Side-Effect: Prices Of Vegetables, Foodgrains May Also Escalate TIMES NEWS NETWORK Lucknow: Even as a group of ministers would be meeting in Delhi later this week to decide upon revision of diesel prices, there is one thing, which has come to haunt authorities in Lucknow and elsewhere. Hoarding fuel and food grains well in advance. Apart from contributing to escalation in prices of the two crucial commodities well before the actual rise in diesel prices come into play, it may trigger panic buying amongst the consumers. Alarmed with the eventuality, district authorities have issued instruction to the dealers and oil companies to declare the fresh position of fuel stocks. The district administration also claims to do its bit to see that hoarding of food grains does not hit the market.     While, prices of food grains and vegetables remain stable, wholesalers and retailers remained apprehensive of prices seeing an upward trend even before diesel prices actually increase. Lucknow food grain wholesaler association president, Bharat Gupta maintained that the situation is stable, as rise in petrol prices did not have any effect on prevailing prices of food grains. However, he did not rule out the possibility of retailers and consumers buying in loads. A member of Lucknow food grain association said that it would be government authorities’ projections vis-à-vis containment of inflation that would matter the most.     A simple calculation put things straight. As a prevalent norm, prices of food grains in wholesale rise by 50 percent of absolute rise in prices of diesel. So, if prices of diesel increase by say Rs 4, the price of food grains in wholesale market would rise by around Rs 1.5 to 2 per kg.     But it’s the retailers who then set the alarm bells ringing by increasing the prices further up, often matching the raise in prices of fuel itself – and sometimes even more. In come the hoarders and you have a market filled with inflation stricken consumers. The situation, however, does not apply in case of vegetables, which remain unaffected till the time of actual rise in diesel prices. “People do not store vegetable in excess. The real effect of any hike in prices of diesel would be later on,’’ said Satish Sonkar, president of UP fruits and vegetable association.     The effect of rise in fuel prices might be most on vegetables like onion, which is imported into the state. In Lucknow wholesale and retail market, the vegetable is being sold at a price of Rs 7 per kg and Rs 10 per kg respectively. On the retail front, vendors appear an aware lot, as far as the proposed increase in diesel prices is concerned. Sonkar, categorically blames the vendors of exaggerating the prices disproportionately. “At times they increase the prices by almost twice,’’ he said. Dist admin keeping eye on hoarders     Fearing large scale hoarding of fuel and food grain stock that may lead to further escalation of prices, district administration on Monday claimed of preparing grounds to set things in order.     Additional district magistrate (civil supplies) SK Singh told TOI that stock position of fuel have been sought from the dealers as well as from oil companies. ``This would enable us to assess and compare the fuel stock as on date and when the prices increase,’’ Singh said.For example, if average daily stock of diesel at a fuel station is 4,000 litres, it should remain more or less same throughout. Any significant changes in the stock in next few days would thus mean the fuel was being stored only to be sold later at a higher price.This would eventually result in the escalation in prices of food grains and vegetable as their transportation cost would increase proportionately.Singh claimed that instructions would soon be given to the officials concerned to keep a check on food grain stock in retail shops. While Singh said that the ration shops would be tabbed, sources did not ruled out the possibility of hoardings.
CORNER OFFICE RAHUL KHULLAR, COMMERCE SECRETARY ‘Trade deals are not about dollar & cents’ Sidhartha & Surojit Gupta | tnn TNN     Commerce secretary Rahul Khullar is known to speak his mind even if others are not comfortable with it. The diminutive 1975-batch IAS office of the union territory cadre keeps a close watch on where the economy is headed given that he has a tough job on hand. While he has to push India’s exports at a time when the global economy is slowing down, Khullar also has to act as a key troubleshooter when things go out of hand in the domestic market, whether it is spiraling onion prices or a spurt in cotton exports.     The 58-year-old civil servant’s stint under Rajiv Gandhi at the prime minister’s office and the finance ministry comes handy in dealing with difficult situations. Khullar, who has a doctorate in economics, has had a ringside view of economic reforms that started during his stint as private secretary to the then finance minister Manmohan Singh.     Branded a tough boss, he often ends up spending more hours in office than his subordinates.     Khullar has spent sixand-a-half years in the commerce ministry, which he had joined as a joint secretary. Barring a six-month stint in the disinvestment department in 2009, he has been busy making life simple for exporters besides expanding India’s market, especially in non-traditional countries such as those in Latin America and Africa. During his stint, India has embarked on a series of free trade agreements and unveiled the concept of special economic zones. Some of his plans have worked, some haven’t. But exports clearly have been on an upswing, galloping from under $65 billion when Khullar came to Udyog Bhawan to nearly $250 billion last year. What is your outlook for exports?     Don’t get carried away by the 30-40% growth in 2010. It (2011) is going to be a very difficult year. Developed country markets are not going to do as well in 2011 as they did in 2010.The developing country markets are not looking too good either. In many of these markets, we now see palpable inflationary pressures. Monetary policy will tighten and as interest rates go up, you know exactly what will happen to growth. Commodity price inflation is throwing everything out of kilter. Therefore, I am far from sanguine that 2011 will be as rosy as 2010 was. At this point of time, my best guess is that exports may end up in the $280-285 billion range, if we are lucky. Are we doing something about it or is there something that exporters need to do to address this?     Two things will happen in the next three months. There will be a supplement to the Foreign Trade Policy. Second, some initiatives will flow from the Strategy Paper released a few weeks ago. My guess is that those initiatives will have payback a year (and beyond) from now, not this year. These things take time. They are not instant fixes. When is the supplement to the Foreign Trade Policy expected?     We need two-three months to do it. Will the OECD meeting help bridge the gap on WTO talks? Do you expect a breakthrough till the US elections are over?     It is not impossible but it’s improbable. At this point of time, it’s stuck on some issues. But, the real problem is that on several substantive issues, the last two years have not resulted in any narrowing of differences. Theoretically, if members could narrow their differences quickly, we could conclude the talks by 2011. Right now, it doesn’t look very easy because there is a stand-off and no one seems willing to cede anything. Is there a danger of talks completely falling apart since every country is signing new FTAs?     The real issue is if you can’t get everything in Doha done, can you get a part of it done? Can you bank some of it? Should we get at least some of the things sorted out? The moment you put all these on the table, some would say yes to some things, some would say no. That discussion has not taken place. Things will start moving only after May 31 and then you should be looking for a discussion on what you can reasonably harvest from Doha in the next seven months. Our position on FTAs seems to have changed from what it was seveneight years ago when we were against it. Are we looking at something that runs parallel to the multilateral process?     There is no conscious move to block multilateral deals but we have to do what is in our best interests. One way to go about things is to say that we will only do multilateral deals. In today’s world, that’s ostrich-like. Everyone is doing bilateral deals. We are latecomers but fortunately we have managed to close some good deals. The other thing is everyone is coming to make a deal with us mainly because we have a large and growing market. Are we late in Africa given what China has done?     I won’t say we are late but we ought to have got (there) earlier. We have had very good relations with nearly all African countries after independence. There was a common political heritage in the struggle against colonialism. But somewhere along the line, we got a little diverted. We cannot and do not want to mimic what the Chinese are doing. In our view, the economic cooperation model works better than the imperialistic model. Do we gain something from FTAs with Australia, New Zealand or Canada?     One, Australia and New Zealand are part of the greater Asian arc. So, it is not possible for me not to engage with them while I engage with ASEAN, Japan and South Korea. Two, at the end of the day, we need to get something from them. Both are great agricultural exporters, both have huge expertise in dairy, which we need to tap. Both are also markets where we can export high quality services. There are large amounts of mineral wealth such as coal and gold.     Canada is looking to expand its ties with us, and others. There are complementarities. They have minerals and food grains such as pulses. In eastern Canada, there are high-tech companies such as RIM and Nortel. They have a huge public health system, and that can help us get our pharma products in. There are nearly two million people of Indian origin. The critical thing is that trade is not just about dollars and cents; it’s about resources, services, movement of persons, corporate entities, investment flows, strategic interests and politics.
CCI to look at food price spike TIMES NEWS NETWORK New Delhi: The recent spurt in prices of food articles, particularly onions, has come to the notice of fair play watchdog Competition Commission of India (CCI) that is now undertaking an exercise to look into competition issues into the agriculture sector with a focus on tracking down any “distortions and imperfections” in the distribution channel of commodities that could have led to escalation of prices at the retail level.     Apart from the agri sector, CCI will also conduct an indepth analysis of the steel and paper sectors to identify any anomalies and anti-competitive practices. “To ensure fair and healthy competition in the Indian economy, the CCI is initiating a series of market studies to analyse and monitor the competitive dynamics in various industries. In the initial phase, we have taken up agriculture, steel and paper,” outgoing chairman Dhanendra Kumar said.     The agri study, 'Market Structures for Agricultural Commodities in India', has been commissioned to the Institute for Social and Economic Change (ISEC). “The purpose of the study is to capture the supply-side dynamics for select agricultural commodities, including onion,” CCI said. Also, the study will analyse the structure, degree and nature of market competition at each stage of the supply chain as well as functioning of the 'mandis'.     Crucial aspects like process of price discovery will be based on direct field investigations and identification of competition and efficiency bottlenecks. The spurt in food inflation in recent months had brought into focus the critical issues of price volatility in agricultural commodities, agricultural market structures and market efficiency, CCI said. ‘CCI-approved M&As have legal cover’ New Delhi: Competition Commission of India (CCI) on Thursday said mergers approved by the watchdog would be immune from legal challenges under the Competition Law, as per the anti-trust immunity (ATI) clause.     “If a company obtains a clearance from us on any joint venture, it obtains a certificate which implies that the deal is free from the risks of facing any challenges from the rivals,” said Dhanendra Kumar, chairman, CCI. He also urged the companies to approach the regulator for pre-merger consultations. “Punishment for anti-competitive practices is not so tough now, but in future it will get stiffer. Confidentiality of data, however, ismaintained at all costs while scrutinizing M&A cases,” he added.Dilip Modi, president, Associated Chambers of Commerce and Industry of India, said, “We need greater transparency to ensure quality services to people at large. The competition law covers activities like price fixing, tying arrangements, monopolistic mergers, etc which decrease market competition.” TNN
‘Hike to hit hard middle class’ TIMES NEWS NETWORK Lucknow: A litre of plain diesel would cost at least Rs 42.56 while consumers will have to shell a minimum of Rs 44.37 for every litre of premium diesel.     Against its present rate of Rs 346.15, LPG cylinder would cost at least Rs 396.15. The projected amount is exclusive of taxes levied by UP government that are added to the base price of the commodities. The increase in percentage of taxes could not be ascertained till midnight because the Union government had reduced central excise rate, increase the profit margins besides other changes. The changes would reflect on taxes levied by UP and a final amount would be fixed thereafter.     “Increase in the rate of diesel is going to pinch more than anything else,” is how B N Shukla, senior office-bearer of UP Petrol Dealers Association, reacted to the increase in per litre price of diesel and cooking gas that got effective on Friday midnight. “This will escalate transportation cost of all essential commodities and would eventually fall on the common man,” he reasoned. The Union government had increased the rate of diesel by Rs 3. Keeping the hike in mind, a litre of diesel would cost at least Rs 42.56 while consumers will have to shell a minimum of Rs 44.37 for every litre of premium diesel. “The amount does not include taxes levied by the UP government,” clarified Vijay Sharma, manager of a fuel station.     President of the UP Fruits and Vegetables Growers and Sellers Association, Satish Sonkar, said that transportation cost would increase by 10-20%. “The increase would be passed on to the consumers. So be prepared to spend more on household budget,” he said. He added that a significant volume of vegetables especially onions, tomatoes, capsicum and fruits like apple come from other states which means that the daily sales would be affected. “Increase in the rate of cooking gas would swell cost of living,” lamented Anjana Srivastava, a housewife in Narhi.     President, UP LPG Dealers Association, D P Singh, said the increase may appear big but eventually households with get used to it. However, he said that middle class would be disturbed by the hike. But, Singh said, the increase would help in checking black-marketing.
House managers devise ways to fight price war July Would Test The Saving Skills Of Buyers Shailvee Sharda | TNN Lucknow: Planning household budget for July would be a test for a home-maker’s management skills. And the level of difficulty would be more for the salaried class. Amar and Meeta Singh are one among the many middle class strugglers. “July is a time when a major portion of the salary is spent in paying children’s school fees. Increased rate of everything is going to hurt the most this month,” Amar said. But some people have devised a formula to survive in these trying times. OFFER(ING) HOPE: Savita Verma has plans to make full use of offers. “At times, buying in bulk especially during offer can help in saving significantly. Though this demands investments bigger than the usual, return comes in the form of peace of mind for about 6-8 months.” Citing an example she said, “I bought rice in bulk from a retail outlet last year. A branded company offered five kilos of rice free on purchase of 15 kilos. I picked up three packets. The quantity is enough for the next four months.” She suggested making similar investments in edible oil and other categories. CANTEEN CALLING: Government officers and employees can make good use of canteens run by the cooperatives. “Cost of items in these canteens is at least 10-20% lesser than the maximum retail price. They may not be as fancy as a retail outlet, but are useful,” said AK Sahu, of the cooperative store in health department. “The reason is that we work on nominal profit basis. Then certain tax exemptions also help in keeping the prices low,” he said. QUITTING FRINGES: Anita Verma has a fancy for flavours. She would never pick up anything in a single flavour. Jams or jellies for instance had to be of different tangs and a range of spreads and butters to choose from. Her mother-in-law discouraged this only because this led to wastage. “I think I will have to end experimentation and make specific choices. I have paid enough for the fascination in the last 2-3 years,” she said. Her husband Rohit has suggested for an ‘as and when required’ approach to buy kitchen goods. “This may mean more visits to the market, but would help in checking extra expenditure,” Rohit said. HOME-MADE PARTY: Sahiba Hasan’s children are fond of fast food. Visit to the restaurants may not be so frequent now. So, she has decided to catch up with cookery shows. “It is easy to make a pizza at home than having a pizza at a food outlet,” she said. Housewife Anandita Sinha, added, “If you are not working, cooking delicacies occasionally isn’t a big task.” WASTING IS CRIMINAL: Sonal Sharma’s thumb rule to effectively manage her resources is to check on all sorts of wasting. “Wasting is criminal” is what the working girl has told her. “Every now and then, I eat out and the food at home is wasted. I get enamoured by new clothes, buy them a couple of times and then dump them. From now on, I will not,” Sonal said. OUT OF BOUND VEGETABLES Rates of vegetables coming from other cities and states to rise by 20-25%. Retail rates of tomatoes, capsicum, onion, and garlic have doubled. FOODGRAINS Prices to swell by Rs 1.5 to Rs 2.5 per kg. Rate of pulses to be higher. BAKERY ITEMS Cost of breads and other bakery products would swell by 10-12% COOKING GAS Though a once a month expenditure, the budget would go up by Rs 60 (includes RS 10 to the cylinder wala). MILK Though cooperatives have not announced revision of rates, experts believe vendors spending more on freight would eventually fall on common man.
The Right Menu Private investment can help us beat food crises     If we needed further proof of the pernicious social consequences of persisting inflation, a recent study by Crisil provides it. It says soaring inflation cost Indian households an added burden of Rs 5.8 lakh crore over the last three fiscal years. And it’s primarily owing to food inflation that annual private consumption spending grew to almost 17% during this time from 14% earlier. Spending mainly on eatables, low-income groups – with little or no disposable income – have been hardest hit by scorching food prices. Yet, there’s marked official apathy vis-a-vis the broader structural problems food inflation highlights.     Take the fact that a bumper wheat harvest should normally bring cheer. But courtesy official unpreparedness compounded by export bans, illequipped granaries are stretched beyond capacity. Foodgrain stocks exceed the manageable amount for warehouses countrywide. In some FCI godowns, wheat is being kept out in the open because covered facilities have been full up thanks to non-clearance of grain. And due to faulty, business-unfriendly policies, not enough private capital has flowed towards building modern silos and storage. We’re in an anomalous situation: a ‘problem of plenty’ now coexists with a psychology of want linked to high food costs. The case with fruits and vegetables is similar. Courtesy inadequate cold chains, nearly 40% goes waste annually even as shop prices of onions or apples soar.     Given food prices are a major inflationary trigger, supply side issues must be tackled urgently. That means embracing agricultural reform in all its aspects: productivity, marketing and distribution. Only then can we access the multifarious benefits of creating infrastructure, raising output and introducing effective delivery systems that’ll supplement – or even replace – the PDS from where subsidised foodgrain routinely rots or gets siphoned off. In this context, there’s been a reassuring signal recently that the government plans to liberalise multibrand retail. Greater private investment will help build capacity. Plus it’ll strike a blow against predatory middlemen in the supply chain who eat into farmers’ incomes while inflating retail prices.     Private funds are critical to farming’s overall modernisation, whether for innovating with water-efficient irrigation, promoting research in agricultural inputs and transgenic crops or boosting agri-processing. In view of unviable farm sizes across India, we must incentivise cooperatives and contract farming. Where supply is concerned, let’s lift barriers on transport and marketing of commodities. Our antediluvian mandi system enriches commission agents, not growers who need direct, competitive access to processors and sellers. Finally, let’s move away from corrupt, unwieldy bureaucracies handing distribution towards well-targeted, personalised instruments like food coupons or cash transfers. That’ll better ensure food gets to the needy even while giving them a sense of agency and greater choice.
Inflation up at 9.44%, RBI may hike rates TIMES NEWS NETWORK New Delhi: Inflation accelerated in June and hovered close to double digit levels on the back of higher manufactured product and fuel prices, prompting the government to say that it is working with the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) to take appropriate measures to tame price pressures.     Data released by the commerce and industry ministry on Thursday showed inflation as measured by the wholesale price index stood at 9.44% in June, rising from 9.06% in May. But economists were concerned by the sharp revisions to the data of the previous month. The inflation number for April was revised sharply upwards to 9.74% from the previously announced 8.66%. The RBI has voiced its concern over the volatility in data which it says acts as a constraint while setting policy.     Inflation has remained above the comfort level of the RBI and the government for the past several months. The central bank has raised interest rates 10 times in the past 15 months to calm stubborn inflationary pressures.     F i n a n c e m i n i s t e r Pranab Mukherjee said inflation continues to be a matter of concern. The government, he said, is monitoring the situation closely and working with the RBI to take appropriate steps to reduce inflation to a more comfortable level. Mukherjee said the reasons for increase in WPI inflation include the hike in administered fuel prices, seasonal effects, an upward movement in mineral and manufactured prices and in part imported inflation. Separate data released showed food inflation rose to a three-month high of 8.31% in early July due to higher prices of onion, fruits, milk, egg and meat prices. Mukherjee sought to draw comfort from the fact that food inflation seemed to have stabilized. Monsoon also remains a risk for food prices. The weather office on Thursday said the rains were 19% below normal in the week to July 13. The behaviour of monsoon rains have raised concerns about its impact on farm sector growth and on food prices. Economists said the RBI which reviews monetary policy later this month, will in all probability raise interest rates as inflation still remains sticky. It has already made it clear that taming inflation remains its top priority and it is ready to sacrifice some short term growth to calm prices.     “The latest inflation offers no cheer to the RBI, and the central bank will have little choice but to hike the repo rate by 25 basis points to 7.75% at its quarterly review on July 26. It will remain focussed on inflation and probably characterise the ongoing moderation in economic growth as being uneven but largely anticipated,” Rajeev Malik, senior economist at CLSA, said in a note.
No respite from rising food prices Not A Seasonal Spike | Double-Digit Rise Is New Normal For Most Commodities Surijit Gupta & Sidhartha TNN New Delhi: Policymakers may be drawing comfort from the fact that food prices have stabilized but for households the pain of rising food prices is far from over.     Food prices shot up unexpectedly last December, led by spiralling onion prices, which forced the government to announce some piecemeal measures to calm prices but they have continued to hover above comfort levels for the past six months. And data shows that onion prices are rising again.     In the week to July 2, onion prices have risen nearly 31% year-on-year and the trend in the past six weeks shows that it is rising steadily. A TOI analysis of 31 daily-use food products shows that 11 items have shown a decline. Of these, four are pulses – arhar, moong, masur and urad – while three are from the fruits and vegetables group-—potatoes, ginger, cabbage and mangoes (see table).     While the government in the past has dismissed rise in these prices as seasonal, it cannot do so any longer. For instance, milk prices have nearly trebled in the past two years and in the week to July 2 rose an annual 12.39%. In the past six weeks, prices of onions, milk, egg, meat and fish have all risen significantly. Fruit prices, which had risen up to 30.78% year-on-year in the week to May 28, have shown some softening but were still up an annual 13.54% in the week to July 2.     Monsoon remains a risk for food inflation and most economists say they would prefer to predict the movement of food prices after more data is available on the spread of the June-September rains. Floods in some parts of the country or patchy rains in states could alter the food price scenario.     Globally food prices have risen but experts say unless structural issues are tackled food prices will continue to remain high. But there is some cheer as officials say that despite the sticky food inflation, wholesale price inflation is unlikely to hit double-digits. Economists have said that the sharp revisions in the inflation numbers for the past few months and the increase in diesel prices could push the inflation rate to double-digits in the months ahead briefly. “I can tell you it will not touch double-digits. The inflation rate will be in the 8-9% region for sometime before easing. It should start easing September onwards,” a senior official, who did not wish to be identified, told TOI.     But he said it was unlikely that the inflation rate would ease to 6-6.5% by end March 2012 as has been predicted by top policymakers. “In the first three four months you have inflation above 9%. To come down to 6% by March you will need to have the inflation rate at around 4-5% for the next few months, which is impossible. So my sense is that by end-March it would be around 7%,” the official said. Inflation, measured by the wholesale price index, quickened in June to 9.44% from 9.06% in May.
Food inflation eases to 29-month low of 7.33% TIMES NEWS NETWORK New Delhi: Food inflation eased to its lowest since February 2009 on the back of a softening in prices of pulses, milk, eggs, meat and fish, but analysts say risks still persist that will maintain the pressure on prices.     Data released by the commerce and industry ministry on Thursday showed food inflation stood at 7.33% in the week to July 16, easing from the previous week’s reading of 7.58%. Food inflation, which shot up to double digits last December, has been softening as supplies have picked up. Pulses prices declined 8% in the week to July 16 from a year ago but prices of onions, fruit and vegetables rose.     Finance minister Pranab Mukherjee did not read too much into the easing of food inflation in mid-July, and said inflationary pressures were still there in the economy. “These weekly figures fluctuate mainly on the base effect. Therefore, they do not show any definitive trend,” he told reporters.     The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) has identified several risks to growth and inflation in the months ahead and has said there are risks to food inflation stemming from the monsoon performance, higher minimum support prices and inadequate supply response pertaining to protein-rich items. The RBI on Tuesday raised interest rates for the 11th time in nearly 15 months and said inflationary pressures in the economy were still strong. It also raised its March-end inflation forecast to 7% from its earlier estimate of 6%.
Food inflation up at 3-month high of 9.9% Onion Prices Spike Most Fruits, Veggies Rise Too TIMES NEWS NETWORK New Delhi: Costly onion, fruits, vegetables and proteinbased items pushed food inflation to a three-month high in late July, highlighting the extent of price pressures in the economy and posing another challenge for policymakers.     Data released by the commerce and industry ministry on Thursday showed the wholesale price index for food articles rose an annual 9.90% in the week to July 30, rising from 8.04% in the previous week. Food prices had displayed tentative signs of easing in the previous months but have remained volatile. The data showed onion prices rose an annual 36.62% while the weekly trend showed prices of vegetables, potatoes, fruits, eggs, meat and fish have remained firm.     A sharp increase in the prices of onion last year had pushed food inflation into double-digits and had emerged as a policy headache for the UPA government which is battling a slew of corruption charges. Policymakers have been consistently wrong footed on inflation in the recent past.     The index for food articles group rose by 1.6% to 195.3 from 192.2 for the previous week due to higher prices of fish-inland (17%), poultry chicken and fish-marine (4% each), ragi and fruits & vegetables (2% each) and rice, coffee and gram (1% each).     “For a couple of weeks, rainfall has been deficient and that could have led to some short-term price pressures,” said Samiran Chakraborty, economist at Standard Chartered Bank. Economists say it is difficult to draw any sweeping conclusions from sharp fluctuations in weekly food inflation data.     Chakraborty said the Reserve Bank of India was unlikely to reverse its monetary policy stance soon and the central bank would carefully watch the movement of global commodity prices. “They have to be convinced that there is a sustained and continuous fall in commodity prices, only then can they reassess their monetary policy stand,” he said.     Expectations of a pause in the central bank’s monetary tightening had gathered pace after downgrading of US debt by ratings agency Standard & Poor’s sparked off fears of a global economic slowdown and spooked financial markets.
Food inflation nears 10%, RBI may hike rates again TIMES NEWS NETWORK New Delhi: Food inflation quickened surprisingly in mid-August, driven by higher prices of vegetables, onions, fruits and protein-based items and economists said the Reserve Bank of India is likely to continue with its tight monetary policy as inflation continues to remain a concern.     Data released by the commerce and industry ministry on Thursday showed food inflation, as measured by the wholesale price index, stood at 9.8% in the week to August 13, accelerating from 9.03% in the previous week. FM Pranab Mukherjee said he was concerned with the increase in food inflation which was close to double digits. He said weekly figures were volatile and an assessment of the price situation should be made on the basis of a relatively larger period.     Food prices have remained volatile in the past few weeks, hitting double digits last December. The upward bias posed a major policy challenge for the government and the RBI. Since then, they have remained at elevated levels.     Economists said fruits, vegetables and milk remained as pressure points but expected prices to ease in the coming weeks. The trend for the past six weeks showed that prices of potatoes, eggs, meat and fish, fruits and onions were on the rise. Onion prices rose 44.42% in the week to August 13, while vegetable prices were up 6.52%, rising from 2.59% in the previous week. “Fruits and vegetables prices spike four to five times in a year. It is a pressure point along with milk as supply is unable to keep pace with demand. Robust monsoon rains should help ease food prices but overall inflation remains high,” said D K Joshi, chief economist at Crisil.
Pricey vegetables, fruits start pinching now Common Man Forced To Rejig Household Budget TIMES NEWS NETWORK Lucknow: Cost-cutting and rejigging their home budget seem to be the only options left for the Singhs as they wage a war against the rocketing prices of food items, especially vegetables.     “The price of everything has gone up, but the salary is same. How much can a middle-class family stretch?” asks Rita Singh, whose husband is a government officer.     Consider this: The price of vegetables has gone up 25-35% between June and September. From basic vegetables like tomatoes and onions to others like beans, arbi, pumpkin, or lobia -- the list includes all. And in some cases, such as cabbage, cauliflower or beans, the prices have just doubled. Even the ‘companions of food’, especially cucumber costs Rs 10 for three units. Thankfully, vegetables in the gourd family are the only entities, besides potatoes, which are on the lower side.     However, vegetables are not the only ‘pricey’ items bothering households. Seasonal fruits too have become dearer. “A kilo of apples cost Rs 100 without any scope for negotiation,” said Savita V, a housewife     . “In fact, fruit juices are cheaper. A litre of apple juice costs Rs 80 and usually comes with some kind of offer,” she added. Other fruits too are expensive.     “I never thought bananas could cost Rs 40 for a dozen or guava would come at a rate of Rs 20 for a kilogram,” complained Vijaya Shri, a retired school teacher.     Cooperatives increased the price of milk a few weeks ago. Poultry owners too are charging 50 paise more for every single unit of egg for the last one and half months. “An egg costs Rs 3.50 these days, while price was Rs 3 per unit in July and it was Rs 2.50 a year ago,” said Lalji Yadav, a general merchant in Qaiserbagh area. The two rates affect those staying alone.     “Egg and milk are the two most dependable and nutritious items for students, bachelors and youngsters living or working away from home,” said Ipsita Kumar, who works in a call centre.     Revised rate of petrol announced in July trickled as higher rates of food grains and bakery products on account of transportation costs. Cost of brown bread for instance has gone up by 25% and rates of biscuits or cake have registered an increase of 15-20%.     “The list seems to be an unending one. Cost of cooking gas, mobile tariff, public transport and vans for school children. The number of heads are simply too many,” said SK Srivastava, a government employee.
Food inflation surges on, hits double digits TIMES NEWS NETWORK New Delhi: Food inflation hit double digits in mid-August on the back of costlier vegetables, especially onion, fruits and protein-based items, prompting finance minister Pranab Mukherjee to admit the trend was disturbing.     Official data released on Thursday showed food inflation, as measured by the wholesale price index, stood at 10.05% in the week ending August 20 — up from the previous week’s 9.80%. Food inflation had last hit double digits in March. Food prices have remained volatile in recent weeks after easing signs in between.     Onion is proving a worry yet again. The latest data shows onion prices shot up 57.01% year-on-year, fruits 21.58%; egg, meat and fish 12.62%; vegetables 15.78% and potato 13.31%. Experts say heavy rain in onion growing areas in Maharashtra might have hurt supplies, while other vegetables prices are hit by seasonal factors. “This is really disturbing,” Mukherjee said. WHAT'S DRIVING UP PRICES? Heavy rain blamed for spike in fruit, vegetable prices, especially onions Demand outpaced supply, leading to surge in price of milk among others Consumption of milk, eggs and meat has risen due to higher purchasing powe Shrinking acreage for fruits due to urbanization; stagnant productivity, poor storage facility resulting in wastage
Food inflation slips to 9.55% New Delhi: Food inflation slipped to 9.55% for the week ended August 27, but the common man continued to reel under price pressure as all items barring pulses and wheat remained expensive. The rate of price rise of food items fell from a five-month high of 10.05% in the previous seven-day period.     Finance minister Pranab Mukherjee expressed hope that food prices will fall further after the festive season, even as he expressed concern over the high prices of non-food and fuel products. Prices of pulses fell by 1.56% year-on-year, while wheat became cheaper by 1.04% during the week under review. Other food items, however, registered an increase in prices. Onions became dearer by 42.03% on an annual basis, while potato prices were up by 13.38% and fruits grew 16.57% costlier. Overall, vegetables became 22.42% costlier. Milk and cereals, too, became dearer by 9.12% and 5.45%, respectively. AGENCIES
Exports surge 44% to $24bn in Aug Engineering, Petro Products Push Growth Trade Deficit At $14 Billion TIMES NEWS NETWORK New Delhi: The country’s exports rose 44.2% in August maintaining its robust expansion on the back of strong shipments of engineering goods, petroleum and oil products, electronics and readymade garments.     Provisional data released by Commerce Secretary Rahul Khullar on Friday showed exports in August stood at $24.3 billion. During April-August 2011, exports rose 54.2% at $134.5 billion, while imports grew 40.4% at $189.4 billion. The trade deficit during the April-August period stood at $ 54.9 billion.     Imports in August 2011 were $38.4 billion, registering the growth of 41.8%. Balance of trade for the month of August 2011 stood at (-) $14.1 billion.     The sectors which notched robust growth included engineering, ($ 39.6 billion) rising 81% over last year and in the month of August it was $7 billion alone, petroleum and oil products, 60% ( $ 24.2 billion) and 4 billion for August, cotton 13,2% ($ 2.7 billion), electronics, 75% ($ 4.7 billion), readymade garments, 32% ( $ 5.75 billion).     Indian exports have grown in double digits since the past year and in July registered more than 80% growth but economist say the global economic slowdown is expected to impact shipments from the country. India’s key markets in Europe and the United States are witnessing a slowdown but diversification of exports to other emerging markets has helped sustain growth.     The commerce secretary also said a panel of ministers had decided to put non-basmati rice and wheat on the open general licence and banned exports of onion. Onion prices have soared in recent weeks and were one of the factors driving food inflation.     Asked whether the government would provide any fiscal help to exporters in the event of a sharp slowdown, Khullar said, “I don’t know when, something will have to be done.” “Till now we have had a good run, but you could be looking at difficulties down the road. If you want to prevent them, then you better kick in now with action.”     He said exports of iron ore, fruits and vegetables were not doing well.     Imports of POL rose 27% ($52.2 billion) in the April-August period while gold and silver increased 130% ($26.3 billion), machinery, 45% ($14.9 billion), electronics, 78% ($13.6 billion), organic and inorganic chemicals 30% ($30 billion) and coal 65% ($ 7 billion). Khullar also said imports of fertilizers have started picking and readymade garments and textiles have performed well.
How To Tame Hunger There are a range of measures the government could employ to control runaway food inflation Arun Firodia     Food inflation in August accelerated to 9.78% year on year, the fastest it has been in 13 months. This is over and above the high inflation of last year. As it has been doing all along, an alarmed RBI has tried yet again to combat this by hiking interest rates by 25 basis points – its 12th hike in the last 18 months. But obviously, this is not going to reduce demand for food nor food inflation.     What is the cause of food inflation? Some say that increased urban demand is the culprit. But production of food products has been increasing in step with the rise in urban population. And export of food products is too insignificant to have any impact on prices. What, then, is the real reason for the runaway rise in food prices?     In 1951-52, 89% of what the consumer spent on food reached the farmer. Now, only 34% reaches him while 66% goes to middlemen. This amounts to a whopping Rs 20 lakh crore. And why is it so? Because as per the Agricultural Produce Market Committee Act (APMC Act), a farmer must take his produce to a ‘market yard’ and sell it through middlemen. The chain of middlemen consists of eight to 10 links, each adding his profit margin of 30% or so. No wonder, then, that a farmer gets only Rs 5 per kg for onions while the consumer pays over Rs 30 per kg!     The APMC Act, passed in 1954, needs to be scrapped or substantially amended. The central government prepared a Model APMC Act in 2003. But agriculture being a state subject, many states have yet to adopt this Model Act – which provides for direct selling by farmers, contract farming and aims to remove interstate barriers for movement of food products – or implement it faithfully due to vested interests.     There are some honourable exceptions. For instance, Andhra Pradesh has started ‘Raythu Bazar’ (farmer’s market) where farmers can sell their produce directly to consumers at select locations in the city. ITC, meanwhile, has started an ‘e-chaupal’ scheme to provide internet connectivity to farmers so that they can decide to sell their produce directly to supermarkets or through market yards. The scheme covers four million farmers in nine states.     However, neither these exceptions nor modifying the APMC Act will be enough. Presently, 30-35% of food products perish during storage and transportation. If this proportion is reduced, supply would substantially increase and prices would come down. For this, we need to develop cold chains for storage and transportation all over the country on a massive scale.     Barc scientists have proved that gamma rays increase the storage life of food products like onions. And scientists at CSIO in Chandigarh have developed a high voltage process to disinfect milk in seconds. This will replace the current method of pasteurisation and save a huge amount of energy. But, needless to say, farmers just cannot afford cold storage or gamma ray equipment. Nationalised banks should step in and create a network of food banks to make storage facilities available to farmers on a rental basis. Farmers could then safely store their produce in these food banks and sell only when the market rate was remunerative. They could also get loans for buying seeds, fertilisers and pesticides from the banks.     Contract farming is another idea whose time has come. The Model APMC Act provides for this. Some companies have already made forays, sourcing produce from farmers under contract and selling them under their own brand names. More such initiatives are required by corporate retailers for a variety of farm produce. This would improve farm productivity and total food production.     Unseasonal rains, famine or pests hit farmers every three to four years. In order to prevent such calamities from devastating them, insurance companies should come forward with different schemes to give insurance cover to farmers so that they can protect their incomes. In fact, given how essential this is to our food security, the government should make it compulsory for insurance companies to do so. It should also bear fully or partly the cost of insurance for small farmers so that they are not unduly burdened. That, again, would make farming a safe and remunerative vocation.     Presently, agricultural produce does not freely move across state boundaries. The time has come to remove such restrictions. In fact, why not go for free trade in food crops among all Saarc countries? If food prices start going up in some area, supplies could be rushed from other states or neighbouring countries. Also, there is an urgent need to exempt all food products from import duties and sales tax to bring food prices under control.     No country in the world has as much fertile irrigated land as we have. But our food productivity is quite low; China’s food productivity is double that of India’s. Contract farming or precision farming technology developed by our agricultural universities can help double our food productivity too.     In short, the government must take these urgent steps if both farmers and consumers are to benefit. Merely increasing interest rates will not do. The writer is chairman, Kinetic Group.
Govt flip-flop continues, lifts onion export ban TIMES NEWS NETWORK New Delhi: The government’s policy flip-flop on onion exports is continuing despite the price of the politically sensitive kitchen item rising 43% over the past one year.     On Tuesday, the commerce department issued a statement saying that the government has decided to lift the ban on the export of onions. “Onions can now be exported subject to a minimum export price (MEP) of $475 per tonne. This is exactly the position that was prevailing on 8 September 2011, immediately before the ban on the export of onions was imposed on 9 September 2011,” it said.     The statement came with the promise of regular monitoring of prices. “The MEP will be reviewed every fortnight and a close watch would be kept on domestic arrivals, total exports, overall domestic availability and domestic prices,” commerce secretary Rahul Khullar said in the statement. The ban was lifted following a decision by the empowered group of ministers.     Although the department remained silent on what prompted this sudden U-turn on its policy decision, the review was necessitated following hectic lobbying by politicians from Maharashtra, agriculture minister Sharad Pawar’s home state.     The government had banned onion exports to enhance supply in the local market and check the steep rise in retail prices which touched Rs 25 a kg from Rs 15 a kg over a span of a few days. Restrictions on exports had an immediate impact on the wholesale markets in Delhi as prices dropped by Rs 2-5 per kg. In recent months, the government has resorted to ban and subsequently lifted it on several farm products arguing that supplies have improved. The practice has even come in for criticism at the World Trade Organization.
Food inflation eases to 7-week low at 8.84% TIMES NEWS NETWORK New Delhi:Food inflation eased to a seven-week low in mid-September as prices of fruits, onion, vegetables, egg and meat moderated, bringing relief to policymakers, who have been grappling with stubbornly high food prices for several months.     Data released by the commerce department on Thursday showed food inflation stood at 8.84% in the week ended September 10, easing from the previous week’s 9.47%. It has remained above 8% level for more than eight weeks. But prices still remain firm. Onion prices rose 28.92% during the week to September 10, moderating from the 42.98% increase in the previous week, while fruit prices rose 17.67%, lower than then the previous week’s rise of 22.64%.     The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) has raised interest rates 12 times since March 2010 to tame inflation. It has consistently warned about high inflation and has said it is ready to sacrifice some short-term growth to calm price pressures. “Food inflation is at near-double digit levels, despite normal monsoons, underlining the fact that it is being driven by structural demandsupply imbalances and cannot be dismissed as a temporary phenomenon,” the central bank has said.     Overall inflation still remains above 9% and some economists say it could touch double-digits before it begins easing around December. The index for food articles rose by 0.2% to 195.7 from 195.4 for the previous week due to higher prices of chicken (8%), sea fish (6%), gram and urad (2% each) and tea, barley, river fish, arhar and moong (1% each). But prices of maize (4%), jowar and fruits & vegetables (2% each) and bajra, ragi and wheat (1% each) declined.
Food inflation at 9.13%, FM worried New Delhi: Rising prices of essential kitchen items like potato and pulses pushed food inflation closer to the doubledigit mark at 9.13 per cent for the week ended September 17, a development which finance minister Pranab Mukherjee termed as “grave”.     “(Food inflation)... is perilously close to double digits. These fluctuations are taking place and it is one of the areas of grave concern,” Mukherjee told reporters here. Food inflation, as measured by the Wholesale Price Index (WPI), was 8.84 per cent in the previous reporting week.     As per the Commerce Ministry data, prices of onions eased marginally, while gram, masoor, arhar, urad and poultry rates firmed up, on an annual basis.     “Food prices are an area of major and grave concern,” Mukherjee said. PTI
Food inflation at six month high of 11.4% TIMES NEWS NETWORK New Delhi: Food inflation quickened in mid-October as prices of vegetables soared, sustaining the pressure on overall inflation and the Reserve Bank of India.     Data released by the commerce and industry ministry on Thursday showed food inflation at a six-month high of 11.43% in the week to October 15, accelerating from the previous week’s 10.60%. It stood at 14.20% in the same year-ago period.     Food inflation was last this high on April 9 when it was recorded at 11.53%.     In the March-October period, the price of food articles has risen by 12.1%, compared with 9.6% for the same period a year ago. Stubbornly high inflation and steadily rising interest rates have played havoc with household budgets.     Economists said Thursday’s food inflation number was a concern. “The headline number is worrisome. Going forward, The base effect may have an impact on food inflation in November and December but if we start off on a high plane it might be difficult to bring it down to the comfort zone even with a strong base effect,” said Samiran Chakraborty, economist at StanChart Bank.     Prices of vegetables rose 25% year-on-year during the week under review, compared to a 17.59% annual increase in the previous week. Fruit prices were up 11.96% year-on-year while egg, meat, fish prices rose an annual 12.82%.     Price of pulses, which had shown some signs of easing earlier due to improved supplies, have started to climb. tnn During the week to October 15, price of pulses rose an annual 9.06%. In the previous week, it had gone up by 7.42%. But the price of onions, which had soared previously, eased significantly. It fell 18.93% in the week to October 15, continuing its downward trend witnessed in the past few weeks. Prices of protein-based items have been stubborn for more than a year as demand remains strong due to rising incomes and dietary changes.     The Reserve Bank of India has identified inflation as the top policy challenge. “Inflation continues to be a major macroeconomic concern. The headline WPI inflation has remained stubbornly high, averaging 9.6% during the financial year so far.
Petrol price hiked 1.8/ltr even as oil cos make profits TIMES NEWS NETWORK New Delhi: The government on Thursday allowed its oil marketing companies to raise the petrol price by Rs 1.80 per litre, excluding taxes, even though they have been making a profit of about 25 paise on the fuel in the last few days.     The fresh hike, which adds to the burden on the inflation-hit common man, also left political circles befuddled by its timing. This is the fifth increase in petrol prices since January and came on a day when food inflation topped 12%, confusing many about the logic of the decision ahead of Parliament’s winter session and crucial state elections. It expectedly drew howls of protest from the opposition.     With this, the price has gone from Rs 58.37 in January to Rs 68.64 in Delhi: an increase of over 12% in 10 months. Only a day before on Wednesday, oil minister S Jaipal Reddy had said raising fuel prices would be tough in view of high inflation and interest rates. Anti-poor move: Maya     Slamming the UPA govt for the sixth increase in petro prices this year, chief minister Mayawati said that this was a cruel joke on the people. This proved that the Congress-led Central government didn’t care about public welfare, she said. TNN Food inflation spurts to 9-mth high of 12.21% FM Blames ‘Dangerously’ High Pace Of Price Rise On Festive Season Demand New Delhi: Pricey vegetables, egg, meat, fish and pulses pushed food inflation to anine-month high at 12.21% in late October, prompting the finance minister to say that it was dangerously above double digits. Data released by the commerce and industry ministry on Thursday showed food inflation had shot up to 12.21% in the week to October 22, rising from 11.43% in the previous week as prices remained stubborn. After hovering above 9% for nearly a year, food inflation remained in double digits for the third consecutive week, data showed.     Prices of vegetables continued to remain strong and maintained their rising trend since September. It rose 28.89% year-on-year in the week to October 22. In the previous week, prices of vegetables had risen an annual 25%. Egg, meat and fish prices rose 13.36% yearon-year while prices of pulses which had displayed some easing in previous weeks rose 11.6%. Onion prices, which had emerged as a pressure point previously, continued their downtrend and fell an annual 20.33%.     “Food inflation is still going high. It is dangerously above double digit figure,” finance minister Pranab Mukherjee said. He attributed the sharp increase in food prices to festival season demand. He said the price situation was a matter of grave concern.     “This (high food inflation) is the effect of festive season demand. November onwards, the trend for remaining four months (of the fiscal) would be available,” he said. Policymakers have been caught on the wrong foot on inflation and their estimate has been way off the mark several times.     Experts have been urging a sustained approach to raise supplies of vegetables, milk, egg, meat and fish. Demand for these items has shot up in recent times due to rising incomes and changing dietary preferences. But despite promises of improving supplies, the situation on the ground has remained unchanged.     “The rise in food inflation was not unexpected as the hike in diesel prices has led to an increase in cost push inflation for food items. Festival demand too has contributed to the increase,” said N R Bhanumurthy, professor, National Institute of Public Finance and Policy. “There is a definite need to address the supply side issues,” he said, adding that inflationary expectations in food prices were expected to ease once the winter crop arrived in the market. Times View     The latest data on food inflation confirms what we as consumers already knew — prices remain high despite the government’s repeated promises that they will come down soon. This is a matter of serious concern, particularly since high food prices hurt the poor most and also upset the budgets of middle class households. The government must act with urgency to deal with the situation. Clearly, monetary policy is not having the desired impact. What is needed is raising supplies of food, through imports if necessary in the short run. Over the longer term, enhancing productivity should be the mantra. Talk of a second green revolution has been on for years, but there is little on the ground to show for all that talk. The sustained bout of double-digit food inflation should serve as a wake-up call for policymakers.
FO O D COURT On your plate, a 24-carat gold lobster Hotels are tempting guests with exotica – from delicacies like toxic Japanese fish to exorbitantly priced white truffles. And, yes, flowers that bloom in your tea Pooja Kashyap |     High-end hotels are going to great lengths these days. And they are matching excellent with exotic to bring in the customers who matter — from the scions of some of the top industrial houses of the country to the self made man who carries the recommendations of his friends to every Friday night dinner.     The dishes — and the ingredients used in them — are often so extraordinary that they can sometimes even be labeled bizarre. For instance, The Lalit Ashok in Bangalore prepares the ‘char fired lobster with 24-carat gold’ for its guests on special order. The dish consists of lobster coated with melted slivers of gold and sugar, and is priced at a whopping Rs 25,000. “Recently, we served this during a three-course dinner for a couple,” says Nimish Bhatia, executive chef of the hotel.     In fact, seafood throws up quite a few colourful dishes. Like fugu — a Japanese puffer fish known for its toxicity. If not prepared properly, it can kill the eater within minutes. For those adventurous enough to try it, Mumbai’s Four Seasons has a licensed chef — one of the few outside Japan who can prepare it. Saikat Ghosh, who has sampled fugu, compares the experience to an adrenaline rush. “It is a great high to eat something like this. How many people can say that they have flirted with poison?”     The thrill of savouring something unique often prompts many to try out dishes that most of us may not have even heard about. And hotels are ready to oblige. For a price, of course. At Delhi’s Taj Mahal hotel, truffles — one of the most expensive edible fungus in the world — are served to guests whipped up with eggs in the ‘truffle and mushroom omelette’. The hotel’s chef says that they can also serve the extremely rare white truffle — whose price at Rs 48,000 per kg matches its exclusivity. That’s not all. Sevruga, one of the most exquisite varieties of caviar is available to the discerning connoisseur at Rs 9,000 per 100 gms. And there is no dearth of takers. Manish Mittal, a businessman who heard about it from a chef friend, has sampled it quite a few times and can now point out the subtle differences in taste. “If the caviar comes from older fish, it is much more tastier,” he says.     Another favourite of fish lovers is the Big Eye Tuna. Used as an ingredient to prepare an interesting dish called Tuna Toro, it is priced at Rs 7,600 per kg. The ‘otoro’ — the belly part of a heavy 200 kg tuna, is another unusual ingredient, used in an assorted sashimi platter and priced at an astronomical Rs 20,000 per kg. In India, Bang alore’s ITC Gardenia serves it only on request. It has had a few takers, among them Chennai-based entrepreneur Naveen Dass, who flies down to Bangalore whenever he feels “the yearning for it.”     The exotica label applies to not just foreign delicacies, it can also extend to desi dishes — especially when they get a fusion tadka. In the kitchens of The Oberoi Gurgaon, foie gras or fattened goose liver—a delicacy since Roman times — has got a new twist. Amaranta, the hotel’s coastal restaurant, serves masala foie gras marinated and cooked with curry leaf and pepper and served wrapped in banana leaf.     Another unique plate gives you a fusion of olives with a traditional Malayalee dish. Christened ‘Olive and Basel Paniyaram’, it is served with jalapeno and mango salsa. “You will find the original dish only in few of the houses down south,” says head chef Saneesh Varghese. After the fusion makeover, guests are lapping it up as an exotic cocktail snack.     For health freaks, a bevy of ingredients bursting with antioxidants and phytonutrients — beneficial compounds derived from plants — are the order of the day. Known as superfoods, typical dishes served in hotels like The Westin, Gurgaon, include granola and berry muesli or pineapple juice mixed with spirulina — a species of micro-algae, which is an excellent source of essential minerals. And this out of the ordinary stuff also applies to beverages, notably flavoured teas. “We serve rare teas like the Jing tea, which is seldom seen outside its country of origin,” says Sanjay Sharma, complex general manager, The Westin Gurgaon. Flavours on offer are Jasmine Chun Hao, Jing Earl Grey and Flowering Jasmine. “More than the taste, it’s the look that enamors you,” says Smriti, a regular at the hotel. “The way the tea leaves open up in a cup of hot water is, well, unbelievable.”     pooja.kashyap@timesgroup.com     (Additional reporting by Anshul Dhamija in Bangalore; Prithvijit Mitra in Kolkata, and Pronoti Datta in Mumbai) GOLD-CRUSTED LOBSTER INGREDIENTS 6 gold stars (24-carat) 1 pc black Perigord truffle 1 pc white Alba truffle 2 pcs morel mushroom 1 king lobster 30 gms onion 20 gms celery 20 ml lemon juice White of 2 eggs Salt METHOD Wash and clean lobster. Take out the tail meat, mix with lemon juice, onion, celery and salt. Place it in the oven for baking. Whisk egg white till it gets fluffy. Pour on the baked lobster and put in the salamander. Now, stick gold stars on it, place sliced black Perigord and white Alba truffle and morel mushroom. Make sure these have been sautéed and seasoned well before they are placed. Serve hot SASHIMI PLATTER INGREDIENTS Daikon (Japanese radish) Sisho (a variety of Japanese green leaf) Otoro (belly part of a Hon Maguro tuna) PREPARATION Take a chilled plate and place fresh daikons. Vertically set the sisho on the daikons. Now, add five finely cut pieces of otoro. Serve with wasabi and soya sauce
J U G U L A R V E I N That’s just fine Inflation has finally caught up with the law as well Jug Suraiya Everyone is beset by inflation. The aam admi is beset by rising food prices. The not-so-aam admi by rising fuel costs. The notat-all-aam admi by the rising price of gold. What’ll be hit next? Diamonds? Platinum? Anjolie Ela Menon paintings? Is nothing sacred, nothing safe from the demon called inflation?     There was indeed something out of the reach of the evil clutches of inflation. No matter how the price of anything you cared to name – and even of not a few which you didn’t care to name – shot up like a cat with a scalded tail, one thing bucked the trend and remained, in India at least, as cheap as it ever was. This exception was something called the law, which sometimes also went under aliases like ‘rules’ and ‘regulations’. The law, along with its aliases, was the only bulwark that withstood the onslaught of inflation. Veggies, daal, chawal, roti, kapda, makaan, petrol, LPG cylinders could, and did, become costlier and costlier. The law – or rather, the penalty attached to breaking it – remained as cut-price as always, by far the best bargain in town.     So downright dirt cheap was the law that anyone and everyone – aam admi, amir admis, and all the various admis in between – could afford to break it if not with impunity then at least with what might be called minimum punity, a puny punity as it were. Wherever you looked, people – young people, old people, rich people, poor people – were blissfully breaking the law, secure in the knowledge that, unlike fossil fuels and other items of scarce supply, there was no dearth of the darn thing to break or otherwise do with as you wished.     This was particularly true of a branch of law known as traffic laws. Lokmanya Tilak famously said: Swaraj is my birthright, and i shall have it. Just as famously, the post-Independence Indian said: Anarchy is my roadright, and i shall have it. Students of chaos theory can find no better example to turn to than the average Indian road. Except that on the average Indian road chaos is not theory, it is practice. Daily, 24x7 practice.     Cars, buses, rickshaws, trucks, two-wheelers, three-wheelers, handpulled carts, street dogs, stray cows, strayer pedestrians, all come together in a celebration of chaos, an abundance of anarchy, breaking every law in the book and not a few which aren’t in the damn thing but what the heck, let’s break ’em anyway while we’re at it. After all, it’s cheap enough. As a nation we might not be able to afford schools, and hospitals, and bijli, and paani, and three square meals a day. The one thing we can afford is thumbing our collective nose at traffic laws. So, be like Nike. Just do it. Feel literally free to break the law. It’s free of charge. Or almost so. But, no longer. Thanks to a spoilsport sarkar, inflation is soon going to catch up with the law. Or rather, with the breaking of it. The Delhi administration is planning to increase by as much as 400% the fines payable for various traffic violations. The fine for jumping a red light (You mean to say that those things that blink on and off are there to control traffic? Well, well what do you know. Here i’ve been going around all these years thinking they were leftover Diwali illuminations) is to go up from . 100 to 500. Driving without a licence (Licence? What licence? Don’t you know the licence raj ended with economic liberalisation?) will be upped from 500 to 2,000. Drunk driving (But i mowed down those 20 people only because i had to swerve to avoid hitting the pink elephant sitting in the middle of the road) will escalate from 2,000 to 4,500.     What Delhi does today, the rest of India will do tomorrow. Inflation will catch up with traffic fines. Anarchy will become as expensive as onions, chaos as costly as kaddus. There’s only one hope. When the cop tries to give you a challan for 500 (driving without helmet) slip him 50 bucks and tell him to keep the challan and add it to his kid’s challan collection. Fight inflation: bribe. Which, for all concerned, will be just fine.     jug.suraiya@timesgroup.com     http://blogs.timesofindia.indiatimes.com/jugglebandhi/ 
Food inflation dips to 8%, a four-month low New Delhi: Food inflation dipped to a four-month low of 8% as on November 19, reflecting fall in prices of essential items like onions, potatoes and wheat giving relief to commonman, while rates for rice and vegetables increased at a moderate pace.     Decline in food inflation may give respite to the government which is facing heat from the Opposition on various issues, including the price rise. PTI
Food inflation at 3-yr low of 6.6% TIMES NEWS NETWORK New Delhi: Food inflation eased significantly in late November as prices of vegetables, onions, potatoes and other items softened due to improved supplies, providing relief for policymakers who are grappling with a difficult economic situation.     Data released by the commerce and industry ministry on Thursday showed food inflation moderated to a more than three-year low at 6.60% in the week to November 26, easing from the previous week’s 8%. It stood at 6.19% in the week to August 9, 2008.     Stubbornly high food prices have posed a serious challenge for policymakers and upset household budgets. High food prices have also led to protests. Food inflation has hovered around double digits for a significant period while overall inflation is still near double digits.     Finance minister Pranab Mukherjee defended the government strategy to deal with price pressures and said retail prices of 30 essential commodities, including that of rice, wheat and pulses, had either fallen or had registered a marginal increase during the past two years.     “It is not correct to say that government has not done anything,” Mukherjee told the Rajya Sabha on Thursday.     Economists said the downtrend in food prices and slowing growth could prompt the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) to pause in its interest rate tightening cycle. The RBI will undertake a policy review next week and most experts say they expect the central bank to hold rates at current levels. The RBI has raised interest rates 13 times since March 2010 to calm price pressures but they have remained stubborn.     The latest data showed vegetable prices fell an annual 1.25% in the week to November 26 after rising sharply for the past few weeks. Onion prices continued to decline and fell 39.20% year-onyear while potato prices were down an annual 15.75%. Prices of milk, egg, meat and fish continued to remain firm.     The index for food articles group declined by 1% to 193.8 from 195.7 for the previous week due to lower prices of fish-inland and jowar (3% each), fruits and vegetables, condiments and spices, masur and urad (2% each) and fish-marine, poultry chicken, barley and moong (1% each). But prices of ragi (3%), pork (2%) and gram, mutton, maize, egg and arhar (1% each) moved up.     Policymakers expect overall inflation to ease to 6-7% range by end-March but economists say it will hover above the comfort level. On Thursday, ratings agency Crisil marginally revised upwards its forecast for inflation in 2011-12 to 9.2% from the previous 9.1%.     “This is because the continuous weakening of the rupee has exerted additional pressure on the imported component of inflation. We now expect the rupee to end the fiscal year at a lower value of Rs 48 per dollar as compared to the earlier forecast of Rs 45-46 per dollar. This will keep inflation at higher levels than expected earlier,” said Dharmakirti Joshi, chief economist at Crisil.
Food inflation at 4-yr low of 4.35% TIMES NEWS NETWORK NewDelhi:The sharp fall in vegetable prices in the neighbourhood market is now showing in the food inflation numbers, which fell to a near four-year low of 4.35% in the week-ended December 3, easing the burden on the government which has been battling criticism over the way it has handled the price situation.     The sharp fall from 10.63% in early November, was the result of prices of vegetables, potatoes, onions and wheat falling in the range of 4.43% to 46% due to better supplies. In some commodities such as potatoes which witnessed a 33% decline, farmers in several parts of the country are dumping the crop on the streets or letting it rot as there is a bumper harvest and cold storages are full with last year’s stocks. In certain cases such as onions, where prices were down 46% due to the high base seen a year ago also came to the rescue. Milk seemed to be the only sour point with prices rising 11%.     Food inflation stood at 6.6% in the previous week and 10.78% a year ago. The latest weekly food inflation number is the lowest since the week-ended February 23, 2008, when it was 4.28%. Buoyed by the steep decline in food prices, chief economic advisor Kaushik Basu said food inflation may go down below 3% in a month’s time. “I expect by the first week of January food inflation will go down below 3%.”     The sharp easing comes ahead of RBI’s review of monetary policy slated for Friday, where it is widely expected to hold key rates steady despite an anguished plea from the government to start cutting interest rates in the wake of falling GDP growth.
RBI sells dollars, curbs speculation as hits 54.3 TIMESNEWSNETWORK Mumbai:The Reserve Bank of India on Thursday sold dollars through public sector banks and announced steps to curb speculation in the foreign exchange market by banks and corporates as it intervened to pull back the rupee from an alltime low of 54.3 against the dollar and help it close at 53.65.     After market hours, RBI also announced a reduction in trading limits for banks. It added that forward contracts by businesses and foreign institutional investors, once cancelled, cannot be rebooked. Food inflation falls to 4.3%     Thesharp fall in vegetable prices in the neighbourhood market is now showing in food inflation numbers, which fell to a near four-year low of 4.35% in the week ended December 3. The sharp fall from 10.63% in November was the result of prices of vegetables, potatoes, onions and wheat falling 4.4% to 46% with better supplies.P 17 ‘Banks need to square up $ position’ Mumbai: As rupee continues to fall, RBI said banks must square up their dollar position by the end of the day. This has been enforced by reducing the net overnight open position limit for banks. On forward contracts, RBI said all such deals booked by both exporters and importers will henceforth be on a fully deliverable basis. If any participant is forced to contract the forward contract, he will not be eligible to receive any exchange gain.     The restrictions in trading limit in forward contracts come in a week in which the rupee has seen its sharpest declines. The currency, which closed last weekend at 52.04, had fallen to 54.3 by noon on Thursday. During the current year, the currency has fallen by more than 18%. Many traders said the rupee would have hit 55 against the dollar if the RBI had not stepped in. The sharp depreciation has made crude imports more expensive and threatens to add to inflation which has only now started showing signs of easing. Forward contracts are deals to sell the dollar at a fixed price in future. Exporters and investors enter into such deals to hedge against the risk of any sharp movement in the currency.     RBI’s hand was forced as negative expectations were turning out to be self-fulfilling. The central bank acted only a day ahead of its midterm policy review on Friday when it is expected to announce its monetary stance for the current quarter. RBI is widely expected to keep key rates unchanged after industrial production dipped 5.1% in October. “These are shortterm measures which market participants understand are aimed at stabilizing the market,” said Ashish Vaidya, head of fixed income, currency and commodities trading, at UBS. He added that while the rupee was expected to firm up, liquidity in the forex markets would reduce.     Dealers said the measures meant that convertibility on merchant account — which gave traders the freedom to book and rebook contracts at will — was temporarily suspended. This is not the last of the measures expected by the central bank.     Other steps that RBI could possibly take include selling dollars directly to oil companies to prevent lumpy demand from driving up the dollar. The central bank could also look at offering non-resident Indians higher returns by removing limits on interest rates on NRI deposits. “The government could also look at a scheme to encourage Indians to bring home money parked overseas through a one-time scheme,” said K N Dey, director, Basix Forex.     There is another school of thought among bankers that believes that once RBI starts easing rates, equity markets will pick up and money will once again start flowing into India as growth picks up.
Food inflation falls to four-year low of 1.81% TIMES NEWS NETWORK New Delhi: Food inflation eased to a four-year low in mid-December due to improved supplies and lower prices of vegetables, potato, onion and wheat, bringing huge relief for the government which has been battling stubborn price pressures for more than a year. Data released by the commerce and industry ministry on Thursday showed food inflation stood at 1.81% in the week to December 10, lower than the previous week’s 4.35%. It stood at 13.22% in the same year-ago period. Food inflation had touched 2.26% in the week to February 9, 2008.     “The persistent high inflation for some time now is unacceptable. We have to steer the economy back to the path of fiscal consolidation,” prime minister Manmohan Singh told the meeting of his Council on Trade and Industry. “While purchasing power has gone up, the supply side response has so far been muted. We believe that with the policy focus on improving agricultural production and productivity, our economy will soon be able to step up the production of food articles, thereby controlling inflation in these products,” he said.     The latest data showed vegetable prices fell 26.37% year-on-year while potato prices were down 34.39%. Onion prices, which had shot sharply last year, fell an annual 49.38% while wheat prices were down 4.21%. Prices of fruits, eggs, meat and fish eased from the previous week but remained firm. Experts said arrival of fresh supplies had helped calm prices. The index for food articles group declined by 0.5% to 191.0 from 191.9 for the previous week due to lower prices of fruits and vegetables and condiments and spices (2% each) and ragi, tea and rice (1% each). But prices of jowar, gram and masur (2% each) and river fish, poultry chicken and sea fish (1% each) moved up.     Stubbornly high food inflation has remained a huge policy challenge for the UPA government for the past few years and has contributed to higher overall inflation. RBI has raised interest rates 13 times since March 2010 to tame price pressures. Policymakers have been wrong-footed several times while predicting the trend of food prices.
...as food inflation falls to near six-year low of 0.42% TIMES NEWS NETWORK New Delhi: Food inflation slowed to its slowest in nearly six years in mid-December as prices of vegetables, onion, potato and wheat fell due to improved supplies, raising prospects for easing of tight monetary policy.     Data released by the commerce and industry ministry on Thursday showed food inflation eased sharply to 0.42% in the week to December 17, lower than the previous week’s 1.81%. The December 17 reading was the slowest since April 2006. It stood at 15.48% in the same year-ago period.     Finance minister Pranab Mukherjee said the moderation in food inflation augured well for overall inflation.     “If this trend continues then you will have year-end inflation of around 6% ...But it cannot be lower than 6% because inflationary pressure was higher in weeks before,” Mukherjee told reporters.     Food inflation has been on a easing trend for the ninth consecutive weeks after hovering around double-digits for a considerable period. Overall inflation in November stood at 9.11%. The RBI has raised interest rates 13 times since March 2010 to tame inflation.     But experts say moderating inflation and concerns over slowing growth could prompt the Reserve Bank of India to ease its tight policy.     Thursday’s data showed vegetable prices fell an annual 36.02% in the week to December 17 while onion prices were down 59.04% year-on-year. Potato prices fell 33.76% and sustained their downward trend. Vegetable prices have been moderating after a sudden spurt in October. Wheat prices fell an annual 3.30% in the week to December 17.     The index for food articles group declined by 0.4% to 190.3 from 191.0 for the previous week due to lower prices of fruits and vegetables (4%), jowar (3%), tea and arhar (2% each) and ragi, urad and condiments and spices (1% each). But prices of sea fish (7%), chicken (2%) and moong, masur, maize, river fish bajra (1% each) moved up.     Experts attributed the fall to a good kharif harvest as well as a high base. “This is a base affect and the good kharif harvest has also contributed to moderation. We expect the prices to remain low for the next few weeks and this may help the RBI to go for rate cuts in the near future,” Crisil chief economist D K Joshi said.     But prices of milk, eggs, meat and fish remained robust due to sustained demand for these products. Increasing demand for protein-based items due to higher incomes have pushed up prices.
Food inflation falls to 6-yr low TIMES NEWS NETWORK New Delhi: Food inflation slowed to its slowest in nearly six years in mid-December as prices of vegetables, onion, potato and wheat fell due to improved supplies, raising prospects for easing of tight monetary policy.     Data released by the Commerce and Industry Ministry on Thursday showed food inflation eased sharply to 0.42% in the week to December 17, lower than the previous week’s 1.81%. The December 17 reading was the slowest since April 2006. It stood at 15.48% in the same year-ago period. Finance Minister Pranab Mukherjee said the moderation in food inflation augured well for overall inflation.     “If this trend continues then you will have year-end inflation of around 6% ...But it cannot be lower than 6%,” Mukherjee told reporters. P 13 
TERA KYA HOGA, KALIYA? 3 soothsayers with local following dip into the future
Food prices drop for first time in 6 yrs TIMES NEWS NETWORK New Delhi: Food inflation turned negative for the first time in nearly six years in late December as prices of vegetables, potato, onion and some cereals fell sharply, prompting analysts to say the data provided headroom for the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) to cut interest rates and support growth.     Data released by the commerce and industry ministry on Thursday showed food inflation, as measured by the wholesale price index, fell by 3.36% — sharply lower than the previous week’s 0.42%. It stood at 20.84% in the same year-ago period. Food inflation fell due to better supplies New Delhi: Plunging to negative figures for the first time in six years, Thursday’s data for food inflation showed vegetable prices fell by 50.22% year-on-year while potato prices declined an annual 34.01%. Onion prices which had shot up last year fell by 73.74% year-on-year. Wheat prices declined an annual 3.41%.     But price of pulses firmed up an annual 13.85% during the week under review. C Rangarajan, chairman of the Prime Minister’s Economic Advisory Council, said he expects the overall inflation to ease below 7% by end-March. Policymakers have been wrong-footed several times in the past two years while predicting the inflation trend.     “We have to wait for December inflation figures to see if the non-food manufacturing numbers have also followed the same path. The December numbers will indicate when and how RBI will act,” he told reporters.     “The environment appears to be in favour of the Reserve Bank reversing its monetary policy stance,” he said.Soaring food prices for more than one year has hit household budgets and has contributed significantly to overall inflation which has hovered around double-digits. Economists said the decline in food inflation was largely due to a statistical base effect but also showed that supplies had improved significantly.     “The supplies have been relatively better. We expect December inflation around 7.5% and expect the RBI to first reduce the cash reserve ratio in its January policy and then follow it up with a rate cut over the next twothree months,” said Samiran Chakraborty, economist at Standard Chartered Bank. TNN
Food inflation remains in negative zone New Delhi: A substantial fall in prices of vegetables, including that of potatoes and onions, led to food inflation slipping to minus 2.90% on December 31 — the second week in a row that it has remained in the negative zone.     A happy finance minister Pranab Mukherjee said, “Food inflation is still negative... There is a declining trend, headline inflation should be 6-7% by end March.” The data showing drop in prices of food articles of common man was released on Thursday, less than two weeks before the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) is set to review its monetary policy, amid expectations of a cut in interest rates.     Food inflation, measured by the wholesale price index (WPI), was over 19% in the corresponding week in the previous year.     It was minus 3.36% in the preceding week ended December 24,2011. AGENCIES
Food inflation remains negative     Asubstantial fall in prices of vegetables, including that of potatoes and onions, led to food inflation slipping to minus 2.90% on December 31 — its second week in a row in the negative zone. Finance minister Pranab Mukherjee said, “There is a declining trend, headline inflation should be 6-7% by end March.” P 15 
Food inflation stays in negative zone Demand For Protein-Rich Food Soars, Production Low TIMES NEWS NETWORK New Delhi: Food inflation remained in negative zone for the third successive week on account of a sharp fall in prices of vegetables, including onions and potatoes, which had seen a surge in prices last winter and had upset household dietary habits.     With more than abundant supply, it’s a different story this year with food inflation estimated at 0.42% during the week-ended January 7, compared to over 16% a year ago. As a group, vegetables were 45.81% cheaper during the week. There is, however, little respite when it comes to protein-rich items with doubledigit inflation seen in case of fruits (10%), milk (11.5%) and eggs and meat (around 20%). In case of pulses too, inflation was estimated at over 14% during the weekended January 7.     With income level rising in recent years, the demand for protein-rich food products has soared, while production has not grown at the same pace. This is causing higher inflation in these segments, something that the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) and several economists have pointed to. Although food inflation has stayed negative, there are signs of acceleration. Economists expect it to be back in the 6-6.5% range by the end of March once the impact of base effect wears off.     “Available data regarding sowing trends for the rabi (winter) season indicates a shortfall in the area sown under pulses and oilseeds, which may result in a further increase in the price levels in the coming weeks,” Aditi Nayar, economist at ratings agency ICRA, said.     Apart from housewives, lowering of food inflation has provided tremendous comfort to policymakers, who have been under pressure due to inflation remaining above 9%. With food prices cooling down, overall inflation based on the wholesale price index too eased to 7.47% in December, a twoyear low. On Wednesday, the World Bank said that with crop production staying comfortable, inflationary pressures would wear off. But, RBI is expected to attach more importance to non-food segments — manufactured products and fuel and power — when it reviews the monetary policy next week. With industrial production too rebounding, chances are RBI will wait until March to start lowering policy rates.
NEWS DIGEST End of an era: Kodak files for bankruptcy The century-old US camera pioneer Eastman Kodak, which invented the handheld camera, filed for bankruptcy on Thursday after years of failing to keep pace with the digital age. P 13 Hi-tech comm sets found with Maoists BSF troops recently recovered a huge cache of ‘state-of-the-art’ Chinese-made communication gadgets in Maoist-affected Koraput in Orissa, setting off alarm bells within the security establishment. Gujarat govt moves SC on Lokayukta row The Gujarat government on Thursday moved Supreme Court, challenging a state high court verdict upholding the appointment of Justice (retd) R A Mehta as the state’s Lokayukta. P 6 At -0.42%, food inflation stays in negative zone Food inflation remained in negative zone for the third successive week on account of a sharp fall in prices of vegetables, including onions and potatoes, which had seen a surge in prices last winter. P 13 SC lawyers face threats inside court A host of well-known senior advocates on Thursday told a Supreme Court bench that it had become difficult for them to walk in the corridors of the court because of threats from a section of Supreme Court Bar Association members. P 9 Nippon Life to buy 26% in Reliance MF for $290m Japanese insurance major Nippon Life Insurance is buying a 26% stake in Reliance Mutual Fund, the Anil Ambani-controlled group’s asset management business, for about Rs 1,450 crore ($290 million). This is the single-largest FDI in the MF industry. P 13 More school kids in dope net: The National Anti-Doping Agency said 11 children tested positive for steroids and diuretics during the 57th National School Games, with Punjab and Maharashtra topping the list of offenders. Orissa minister quits over rape case: Under attack for allegedly shielding youths accused of rape, Orissa minister Pradip Maharathy resigned on Thursday on ‘moral grounds’. P 6 Indian in US insider trading case: An Indian is among seven people charged in US of running a “ club” which made $62 million from insider trading.
Food inflation remains in negative territory TIMES NEWS NETWORK New Delhi: Food inflation remained in the negative zone for the fourth consecutive week on the back of sharp slide in prices of vegetables, potato and onion but prices of egg, meat and fruits remained stubborn. Data released by the commerce and industry ministry on Friday showed food inflation in the week to January 14 stood at -1.03% compared to -0.42% in the previous. It stood at 17.14% in the corresponding year-ago period. Food inflation has eased sharply in recent weeks due to improved supplies. The data showed vegetables prices declined an annual 47.06% in the week to January 14 while potato prices slipped an annual 22.46%. Onion prices, which had shot up sharply last year, were down an annual 79.10%.     But prices of some proteinbased items continued to remain robust. The data showed egg, meat and fish rose an annual 20.33% in the week to January 14. Milk prices also remained firm rising 12.25% year-on-year while fruits prices rose an annual 5.17%.     Policymakers say the sharp increase in demand for proteinbased items due to large disposable incomes have led to firm prices for these items. Experts say raising productivity and supplies is the only long term solution for stable prices. Headline inflation has slowed to a 2-year low of 7.47% in December largely due to the impact of slowing food inflation but manufactured product inflation continues to be a concerns for policymakers.
I will show clip to my people: Laxman Savadi M B Maramkal Bangalore: To be described as a minister caught watching porn on the floor of the assembly is something no politician wants. The BJP strongman from Belgaum, Laxman Savadi, admits he is yet to recover from the shock of being named as an accused in porngate. Savadi tells TOI he will now approach the people’s court and reveal the truth. Excerpts: What transpired in the assembly that day? I had just returned from the Upper House to reply to a legislator’s query in the assembly. As the legislator left the house, I took my seat and casually asked what the fuss was about the alleged rave party (on St Mary’s Island off Udupi). Krishna Palemar gave me his cellphone, saying the rave party was nothing compared to the clip on his phone. I was seeing the clip of a woman dancing, being raped and beheaded and the five youths who killed her being hanged in public. At that point, I was handed a copy of an order on onion prices. My attention was divided between the two. By then Palemar had left the place. Only on returning to my residential quarters did I come to know that my viewing of the clip was on TV. Do you regret the incident? I have no regret. My conscience is clear. But I’m pained by the media, particularly visual media, reporting it out of context. Not even once did the media point out that the video was a documentary film of an incident in an Islamic country. If they’d said that, it would have been clear that my intention was not wrong. How do you respond to those who sayviewingthatclipintheassembly is a crime? It was not a porn film, it was a documentary. Secondly, I owe an explanation to the people of my constituency.I’ll show the clip to all the people in my constituency. Let them decide.
Your favourite restaurant’s favourite man Some of urban India’s most-visited restaurants wouldn’t be the same without the men they depend on to supply make-or-break ingredients. Ismat Tahseen tells the story of an 11 pm emergency call for a fresh batch of prawns DELHI Baci’s Felix salad is no good without the rocket lettuce from Pankaj Kumar Singh’s Okhla farm     THE answer to the way India is changing how it eats lies at a 12-acre farm in Okhla on the outskirts of New Delhi. “Look around,” he says, pointing to beds of rocket lettuce. “Ten years ago, there was no demand for a single English vegetable. Today, I sell up to 500 kilos of broccoli a day,” says Pankaj Kumar Singh.     Twenty-two years of experience in the business makes Singh’s opinion on the Indian palate, a valid one. He was the first, he says, to grow yellow bell peppers in the neighbourhood, and brought the seedless variety of Holland’s cucumber to Delhi, relying on little else but instinct.     Singh’s farm houses a variety of lettuce, including butter, Romaine, red tip, radicchio and endive. They sit side-by-side with bunching onions that the organic farmer says do well in sandwich fillings, and salads. And it’s the location of this greenpad that Singh says is his USP. “Chefs can get the same varieties at an exotic veggie store but the rustic, farm fresh flavours? No.”     Work is butter smooth, the gentleman admits, until he gets a “heart attack”. “Once, we harvested 100 kilos of rocket lettuce. But the client wanted 200 in a rush. So, I had to find a way of sourcing the rest from the market. We can’t disappoint our clients.”     Andrea Aftab Pauro, proprietor of Baci restaurant in Delhi, says Singh shares half the credit for the popularity of their Felix salad. “I’m choosy about what goes into it. The leaves can’t be wilted or too young. Singh sends us the perfect bunch,” says Pauro.     ismat.tahseen@timesgroup.com Singh’s tip: Don’t soak rocket leaves in water for long. They will lose water-soluble vitamin C and folate. PUNE Stone Water Grill’s Mushroom-crusted rawas relies on Sanjay Taru’s fresh catch     SANJAY TARU’S voice is laced with apology when he says, “I can’t help it. I have fish on my mind all the time.” The 33-year-old Pune resident supplies close to 100 kilos of seafood to some of the city’s best known restaurants, including Riverview and the Turf Club. He starts his day at dawn, spending most of it at his Dhole Patil Road supply centre, identifying if the fish is fresh with a quick glance. “I send 10 kilos of crab and prawn, and another 12 kilos of basa every day to Stone Water Grill. But, I need to be ready for emergencies. A last-minute call could mean I have to cough up 15 kilos of prawn, just like that.” It is this that makes Taru’s job far from boring, and was one of the reasons the graduate in Computer Sciences was able to come to terms with a switch in career if the family business was to continue.     “I’m their only son. Dad was doing so much; I had to pitch in. Besides, I am able to use my tech knowledge to enhance my business,” says Taru. It’s not an easy business to run, with a low profit margin and fierce competition playing spoil sport. “Fish breeding seasons throw up complications in the supply chain. That’s when we have to procure the catch from other states. Nature can throw up quite a challenge!” he says. Taru’s tip: To keep lobsters and crabs fresh for a week, boil them before you preserve them in a deep freezer. MUMBAI Indigo Deli’s Steamed rawas is no good without Hemant Chhabra’s lemon basil     EXECUTIVE chef with Mumbai restaurant Indigo Deli, Jaydeep Mukherjee can do without his paring knife, at a pinch. But he refuses to work without sprigs of orange basil that he blends in a sauce drizzled over his Lobster ravioli. The lemon-flavoured basil is equally important to the creation of the eatery’s signature Steamed rawas. Rather than belong to flamboyant recipe books, these flavour secrets stem from Hideout, a farm that stands at Vikramgarh, 100 km from Mumbai.     Twenty-three years ago, Hemant Chhabra invested his savings in this nine-and-a-half acre farm together with wife Sangeeta. They offered tired urban Indians a rural break — baking bricks, weaving bamboo baskets and picking vegetables for their meals.     Now, Hideout also caters to restaurants like Indigo. “Everyone thought it was a huge gamble, but it has been great,” says the organic entrepreneur who grows 23 varieties of bananas, including the South Indian Neendrapalam, Rastali, Rasali and other types from Goa, Karnataka and Kanyakumari. There are also love apples, French tomatoes, and herbs, including six varieties of the basil — Italian, fine, Thai, violet, lemon, and Mammoth. “Thai basil emits a very faint aroma, while Italian basil is potent; just crush a leaf gently, and you’ll see,” he says.     Chhabra’s pineapples are a hit too, including the Q2 variety that weighs six kilos. He followes Japanese farmer Masanobu Fukuoka’s philosophy of ‘donothing farming’ (do away with the need for soil cultivation, ploughing, chemical fertilisers, pesticides, weeding, pruning, machinery or compost and still manage to produce yields equivalent to that borne by chemical agriculture).     But it hasn’t been easy. Ten years ago, Chhabra would hitch a ride on a state bus, carting 40 kilos of Italian lemons to take to Mumbai. Priced at 2 a piece, they were exorbitant for bazaar-goers. A chance meeting at a yoga class with Malini Akerkar, co-owner of Indigo, led to a deal. “I’m happy the produce has found respect,” he smiles. The occasional times he has dropped by at the restaurant for a meal, he says, it has taken him no more than a second to tell if the lemon zing rushing over his palate is courtesy Hideout. Chhabra’s tip: Basil leaves turn black quickly; they should be chopped just before serving. Basil leaves and cashew bits blended with olive oil and a squeeze of lemon make a refreshing summer salad dressing.
Greens burn a hole in pocket Shortage Of Vegetables Triggers A Price Rise In The City TIMES NEWS NETWORK Lucknow: It’s the beginning of new financial year and there is already a dent in common man’s pocket. Thanks to the prices of vegetables - already high - shot through the roof in the past week. The potato, consumed mostly in households, hovers around Rs 12-16 per kg depending on the quality. The greens, cauliflower and cabbage, are being sold at Rs 17-18 per piece.     Considered not so consumable vegetable, capsicum is being sold at Rs 80 per kg. There is steep rise in the prices of tomato which is available at Rs 24-32, again depending upon the quality. A month before, tomatoes were priced at Rs 12-16 per kg. Onions, and ginger, however, have remained constant over a month’s time. While onion is priced at Rs 11-13 per kg, ginger is at Rs 40-42 per kg.     Vegetable market sellers say shortage of supply is the prime reason for the price hike. “Reduced sowing of vegetables in the state has led to the short-supply. It will take another 15-20 days before one can expect prices of vegetables to go down,’’ said Suresh Kumar, a veggie seller in Narhi.     His opinion was seconded by president, Chowk Fruits and Sellers Association, Babu Mohd Atiq. “The prices of vegetables have gone up as they are being transported from other states. Transportation charges coupled with increase in diesel prices have led to price rise.’’ Vegetables such as lady finger, gourd (parval) and other greens are being brought in from southern parts of the country. The cost of lady finger in the local markets range between Rs 55-60 per kg while bottle guard is priced at Rs 14-16 per kg. The beans are available at Rs 60-62 per kg and lemons at Rs 75 per kilogram (about Rs 3 per piece).     So, will Lucknowites continue to pay through their nose in the coming days? “Yes. The reduced sowing in the state has affected the supplies. So, a little drop is possible but not a major change,’’ said Atiq.     Less supply affecting the influx of vegetables in the local markets have also become a serious concern for the housewives. In fact, they are cutting on the extra ones. “The household budget has gone up. The cost of green vegetables is so high that one can really think of eating them throughout the week,’’ said Vinita Mishra, a resident of Aliganj.     Another housewife, Amita Singh from Gomtinagar, said: “If the price of vegetables continues to be high, we will be forced to cut down on our requirement which is not really welcomed. Vegetables are a good source of nutrition and hence, it should be affordable to a common man.’’ REASONS FOR THE HIKE: Reduced sowing: In wake of rising input cost, low profitability and shortage of agricultural labourers, farmers sowed lesser than previous years. Hence, vegetables are imported from other states. TRANSPORTATION PUSH PRICES UP: The common man should get ready to spent more when it comes to buying vegetables. Since the vegetables are being transported from different states such as Karnataka, Maharashtra, Kerela, West Bengal, Madhya Pradesh and others, the rates automatically goes up. And with the hiked up price for diesel, it is becoming very difficult for the sellers to maintain a consumerfriendly rate.
Food prices double in UPA’s term Sidhartha TNN New Delhi: If inflation has broken the back of the aam aadmi, the biggest contributor to the pain in the UPA’s term is food prices.     Government data on wholesale price index (WPI) shows that there has been a 63% increase in the price of all commodities between April 2004, a month before UPA took charge, and April 2012, the latest period for which data is available. But when it comes to food products, the index has more than doubled from 98 to 206.4. So, you are now spending at least twice the amount you spent in April 2004 just to meet your basic consumption needs.     Of the 60-odd items analyzed by TOI and Crisil, there is just one case — ginger — where the price has decreased, going by the index. In all other cases, there has been an increase. Within these commodities, there are only eight products — guava, coconut, garlic, papaya, onions, turmeric, tea and chicken — where the rise in prices is less than 63%.     The spurt in food prices is mainly due to demand outstripping supply as productivity has remained stagnant for most of the commodities.     For households, especially the poor, food inflation can have the most damaging impact, given that a bulk of spending in the lower income strata is on this segment. While the poor can draw some comfort from the fact that cereal prices are not among the commodities which have seen the maximum jump, the overall increase is still over 90% with wheat and rice, on an average, seeing over 80% increase.     While protein-rich items such as milk, egg, meat and fish have seen prices more than double, it is vegetables that have caused the maximum dent to the housewife’s monthly budget with a 171% jump. So, if you spent Rs 3,000 a month on vegetables seven years ago, you would now be spending over Rs 5,000. Given that cabbage now costs sixand-a-half times more than April 2004, you can draw comfort from the fact that during this period, potato and brinjal prices have gone up by 111% and 140%. Bhindi now costs four-and-a-half times more.
EAT OR NOT TO EAT? Middlemen jack up prices as greens burn hole in the pocket Huge Difference Between Prices At City’s Wholesale And Retail Markets Baffles Buyers Swati Sharma | TNN Lucknow: Till last month, Rs 500 were enough for Rita Mishra, a housewife, to buy a week’s quota of vegetables for her family of four. But now she does not get enough to last even for three days. The skyrocketing prices of vegetables have come as yet another blow for the people already reeling under high inflation rate, mainly due to hike in the prices of the foodgrains and fuel. However, what has left people puzzled is the difference between the wholesale and retail prices. When TOI compared the prices, the average difference between the wholesale and retail prices was nearly 100% while in some cases it was higher than 200% or even more.     Two weeks ago, tomato was available in the local mandis at around Rs 20 per kg but now the price has hit Rs 60. However, the wholesale price of tomato at present is Rs 30-32 per kg. In super markets, the same tomato is available for Rs 45 per kg. Similarly, potato prices have also doubled in the past 15 days. At present, the potato rate in mandis is Rs 20 per kg, wholesale Rs 12-14 per kg and in super market Rs 16-17 per kg. The price of lady finger in local mandis is Rs 25 per kg and super market Rs 27-30 per kg, whereas in wholesale it is available for Rs 12 per kg. Coriander is selling at Rs 200 per kg in retail -- double the wholesale price of Rs 100 per kg. In super markets, however, the price is Rs 120 per kg. Same is the case with onion.     “Earlier, Rs 50-60 were enough to spend at a sabzi mandi. But today even with Rs 150- 200 in hand you will not be able to buy same quantity of vegetables,” said Beena Verma, a housewife, shopping at Nishatganj mandi. Ruchika, a college student, who had come to buy vegetables at Narhi, said that the surprising part is that even the seasonal vegetables were costly. Anupma Khattri said “Earlier, rates of vegetables at super market were reasonable earlier, but have shot up in the past few days. However, I still prefer super market because it saves time.” On the other hand, Rita Singh, said that she has started going to wholesale market once a week. But, she added, in wholesale one doesn’t get a choice to select. “One has to buy the whole lot piled in front of you,” she said.     Many people who supply tiffin to hostels are also facing tough time due to hike in the price of vegetables. Maya, who runs a tiffin service for working girls and students at Gomtinagar, said, “My customers complain that I am not providing them variety of vegetables. I charge Rs 20 per meal and it is not possible to meet the cost. I try to balance the demand through rajma, curries, kachhauri and other things instead of regular meals. “Many families have cut down on their outings to keep expenses under control. “The prices of all the items are going up and it is increasingly becoming difficult for the salaried class to stick to the family budget,” said Ramesh Srivastava, an executive in a telecom company.     President of vegetable and fruits grower association Satish Sonkar, when contacted, said, “prices have shot up recently in the retail because of increase in the transportation cost. Also, the shelf life of some vegetables in rainy season is less. However, vegetable vendors complained that lot of money is pocketed by the middlemen who buy from the wholesale and supply to the retailers. “The network of middlemen in wholesale market is so strong that without their consent, farmers cannot unload their produce in the mandis and vendors cannot buy directly from the wholesalers. These middlemen fix the purchase and sales price,” said Raju Sonkar, a vegetable vendor in Nishatganj. “Many vendors buy from the suppliers, who are also middlemen,” he added. VOX POPULI If the price of a single vegetable rises, I can avoid using it. But, as the prices of all vegetables are so high, I have no choice, but to spend more on them. Chandra Kali | RAILWAY EMPLOYEE I tell my wife to buy vegetables from the wholesale market instead of roadside vendors because of the difference in price. By doing this we at least save a little. Ravi Mishra | BUSINESSMAN Vegetable price hike has forced people to compromise on fresh vegetables. The government should do something, otherwise what a poor man will eat? Ratna Mitra | GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEE I live in a hostel so I don’t get different varieties of vegetables to eat because of the price hike. Shakshi Gupta | STUDENT
PRICE PINCH Diesel Hike Upsets Common Man’s Budget Due To Sharp Rise In The Cost Of Transportation, Prices Of Most Essential Commodities Likely To Go Up By 15-20% TIMES NEWS NETWORK Lucknow: The cascading effect of the hike in diesel prices started showing on Friday with traders gearing up to raise the prices of most of the essential commodities – from foodgrains to medicine to seeds to cement – by around 15 to 20%, thanks to a steep rise in the transportation cost. Market watchers fear that this may not only lead to rise in commodity prices but may also lead to hoarding of essential commodities including food grains.     “This is but obvious that the transportation cost of foodgrains and pulses are going to shot up by 20%,” said president of Lucknow Dal and Rice Millers association, Bharat Bhushan Gupta. According to him, transportation cost of foodgrains which used to be Rs 250 per quintal is likely to shot up to Rs 280 to Rs 290 per quintal in the next few days. “The effect will be the rise of anything of around Rs 2 per Kg in pulses, for instance,” he said. For example, prices of Arhar is likely to rise from Rs 68 to Rs 70 and of rice from Rs 35 to Rs 37. But mind you that applies in case of wholesale market. The retail could instead go up even more. The impact would also trickle down on the prices of vegetables which too would get dearer.     Transporters claim that they did not revised the fares even though the prices of diesel revised three times in the last four months. “But this time the rise has become unbearable,” said VK Chhabra, president, UP Transporters Association. He said that the revision would come into play by Saturday.     Here is how the transportation charges would look like. Medicine, which was transported at Rs 80 per quintal will now be ferried at the rate of Rs 100 per quintal. Likewise, pesticide will be transported at the rate of Rs 35 per carton as against Rs 30 per carton which was the case earlier.     The revision in diesel prices will also dent the sentiments of farmers. According to experts, the input cost of irrigation will increase by 10-15% due to increase in diesel prices. Nearly 67% of the agriculture land in the state is irrigated with diesel run tube wells. Tractors also run on diesels. In fact, farmers depend heavily on diesel for transportation. Only around 3% tube-wells are electrified. Around 30% farm land is irrigated through canals.     “Significantly, the Commission for Agricultural Costs and Prices (CACP), government of India, does not consider diesel price while deciding Minimum Support Price (MSP) for foodgrains such as wheat and rice. Similar is the case with the cane pricing. But now, government will have to increase the MSP to compensate the farmers,” said Sudhir Panwar, president Kisan Jagriti Manch. Several farmers organisations, including the Bharatiya Kisan Union, has announced to launch agitation demanding roll back of diesel prices. Another worry for farmers is central government's proposal to deregulate diesel. Further, the CACP has recommended 23% hike in Fair and Remunerative Price for sugarcane for the 2013 season. The price has been fixed on the basis of input cost of the current year. Now, farmer leaders said, FRP should be revised.     As if that was not enough transportation of seeds too likely to rise by 20 percent. For example, seeds transported to Allahabad will cost around Rs 95 per quintal as against Rs 80 per quintal.     The rise in fuel prices is also set to have its impact on the industrial growth in the state. Industrialist maintain that the rise will either have a direct or indirect effect. “The production cost of material in the small and medium scale units are likely to rise by 3 to 5%,” said president of Lucknow chapter of Indian Industries Association, Prashant Bhatia. He said the direct impact will essentially come because of the rise in transportation cost of the raw material. FUEL WONDER Foodgrains and vegetables will see a rise of around 15 to 20%. The transportation cost of foodgrains which used to be Rs 250 per quintal is likely to shot up to Rs 280 per quintal Broadly, the transportation cost would rise by 20%. Medicine, which was transported at Rs 80 per quintal will now be ferried at the rate of Rs 100 per quintal. Pesticide will be transported at the rate of Rs 35 per carton as against Rs 30 per carton which was the case earlier The input cost of irrigation will increase by 10-15% due to increase in diesel prices. Nearly 67% of the agriculture land in the state is irrigated with diesel run tube wells. Transportation of seeds too likely to rise by 20% Will adversely affect the industrial growth. The production cost of material in the small and medium scale units are likely to rise by 3 to 5 percent The real estate sector will be dented would scale down the demand for properties. This is apart from rise in cost of the construction material like cement, sand, etc Increase in diesel price to make vegetables costlier     Following the hike in the price of diesel by Rs 5 per litre, the cost of vegetables are likely to go up by 10-15% due to increase in transportation cost.     Potato is available in the local market at around Rs 24 per kg, but now it will cost about Rs 27 per kg. Similarly, the price of onion at local mandis is Rs 14 per kg, which will now be sold at about Rs 16 per kg. The price of tomato is expected to go up to Rs 23 per kg from the current Rs 20 per kg. Similarly, the price of lady finger is Rs 30 per kg, but will now cost around Rs 35 per kg. Capsicum, which is being sold at Rs 60 per kg will hit about Rs 70 per kg. Coriander available for Rs 200 per kg will now be priced at around Rs 230.     Chandra Bisht, a housewife said that already everything is so costly. It has become very difficult for salaried class to stick to the family budget.
SNUBBED AGAIN Pietersen remains a pariah, axed from India tour London:Kevin Pietersen has been left out of England's Test squad for the tour of India as the controversial batsman pays the price for the text message scandal that has left his international career in tatters. Pietersen was dropped for the final Test against South Africa after sending texts to opposition players that contained criticizm of then England captain Andrew Strauss.     The South Africa-born star has since met England coach Andy Flower for clearthe-air talks, but there are still issues to be resolved and that meant there was no place for Pietersen on the plane to India.     England cricket managing director Hugh Morris however left the door open for the 32-year-old to return to the fold in the future. Somerset's Nick Compton and Yorkshire's Joe Root have been called up after both enjoyed impressive seasons in English county cricket.     Pietersen admitted he is disappointed to have been snubbed again by England after going to “great lengths” to broker a peace deal following the text message row that threatens to end his international career. “Kevin Pietersen is disappointed about the decision, having gone to great lengths to reach a reconciliation with the ECB,” his management said in a statement.     “At all times, Pietersen had wished his dealings with the ECB to remain private so as not to inflame an already difficult situation.     “His recent silence was not an admission of any wrong-doing; he wanted to explain and apologise to the ECB for the messages exchanged with members of the South African team,” it said.     Distracted by the KP controversy, England lost their place on top of the Test rankings to South Africa after being beaten by the Proteas in the recent series. TIMES VIEW Pietersen’s absence will come as a big blow for the touring England side, which has struggled in India in recent times. England are already deprived of the retired Andrew Strauss and the presence of KP, a handy player of spin who is well-versed with Indian conditions, could have provided them the much-needed X-factor. However, it’s good news for MS Dhoni & Co, who will be heaving a sigh of relief at England voluntarily keeping out one of its main batting weapons. Indian fans will still be happy that KP will be free to light up things for Delhi Daredevils by being available for the entire IPL next year.
EXCEPTION HERE
Home Truths In The Price Rise Story Householders Find It Hard To Make Two Ends Meet As Every Item Of Use Gets Costlier Priyanka Singh & Priyangi Agarwal | TNN Lucknow: Considered easy and affordable for lower and middle income groups to live in, the city does not fit the bill any longer, no thanks to the recent hike in diesel price of Rs 5 per litre and the subsidy cap on LPG cylinders. The resulting hike in prices of almost all the essential commodities and services over the past two weeks has drawn sharp criticism from citizens.     Arun Khanna (35) lives in a small rented house in Aliganj with his wife, a child and his parents. Khanna is a marketing professional and earns around Rs 40,000 per month. His father, a retired bank clerk gets a pension of Rs 10,000 every month. With just two persons earning in a family of five, it has become difficult for them to manage the increasing cost of living. Their household expenditures have doubled in a fortnight's time. Khanna says, “Our monthly expenditure has risen by Rs 10,000 while the income has not. I was shocked to see our expenditures have grown from Rs 10,000 to Rs 20,000.”     Prices of food, recreation facilities, transportation, education, medicines, kitchen appliances, clothings have all risen by 5 to 25 per cent. Joint families are the worst hit, many of them considering to cook only one time and take other austere measures to check expenses to balance their monthly budget.     Commodities which have shown maximum rise in price are in the food category. Following the rise in prices of fruits and vegetables, restaurants, and roadside vendors have increased their rates too. Asha Singh (57), resident of Triveninagar, says, “Barring onions and potatoes, prices of all other vegetables have doubled. Pomegranates which came at Rs 70 per kg are now Rs 120 a kg.” Vegetable hawker Aadesh agreed that prices of green vegetables have shot up 100 per cent. Gourds selling at Rs 5 per kg are now for Rs 12 a kg. Even pumpkins cost Rs 10 per kg from the earlier price of Rs 6.     General manager of a famous restaurant and hotel chain in Lucknow said they are planning to revise their menu rate cards soon given the recent price hike. Says Ashish Bass, “We have no option but to increase prices on our menu list. Our rate cards will be revised this week. There is an overall hike of 15-20 per cent in our rates for food and rent of taxi provided by our hotel. LPG costs have risen by about Rs 5-10 thousand every month. We cannot sustain the old pricing.”     Even street food is no exception to the compulsions of price rise. The roadside vendors have raised price of tea, coffee, bun-butter, ‘litti-chokha’,fruitjuiceby one tofive rupees.Ramu(25), a teavendor at Sapru Marg said, “We are forced to increase the cost of tea and bun-butter by one and three rupees.”     Tiffin caterers supplying to offices and students have raised prices of their dabba by Rs 5 to 7per meal. Ajay Gaur who supplies tiffin in Hazratganj confirmed, “Since prices of vegetables and transportation have risen, we will increase price of our meals from Rs 30 to 35 from next month.” A worried MBA student, Akanksha Bharadwaj staying in a paying guest facility, says the quality and quantity of the tiffin have gone down significantly after the hike and it's difficult for students to bear the increased cost against the fixed amount sent by parents.     School bus and van operators have increased their monthly fare by Rs 50 to 100 per. Shikha, mother of an 8 years old boy studying in a private school says the fare of the school van has risen from Rs 700 to 800. Besides, shops which sell toys, games, gift items and souvenirs confirmed that the prices of the new stock would be about 15 to 20 per cent costlier than before. Mohit Garg, a shopkeeper in Saharaganj Mall, said, “Transportation cost has gone up and it would reflect on the prices of the new stock.” Retailers of apparels say the new stock for winters would be priced 10-15 per cent more. While hosiery items and undergarments could see a 5 to 10 per cent hike, branded shoes would cost you Rs 100 to 300 more a pair. Manish Nigam, who runs a family store on Shahnajaf Road says most of the prominent brands of clothing sector have increased their prices by 5 to 10 per cent to meet the increase in the transportation cost. “The new stock would arrive in October at revised rates,” he adds.     Even necessary items like medicines are hit by price rise. Owner of a medical shop on Rana Pratap Marg Manoj Srivastava says, “Prices of medicines have gone up by around 10 per cent. Owner of a cosmetic shop in Vikasnagar, Manoj Verma says, “Colour cosmetics like nail polishes and nail paint-removers became 10 per cent more expensive last week.”     Owner of a kitchen appliances shop in Indiranagar said he was expecting the new stock to be expensive by 5 to 10 per cent. All major brands of kitchen appliances and utensils would hike their prices by 10 per cent.     Cineplexes which run on diesel generators during power cuts and spend around Rs 5,000-6,000 every month on the fuel would now have to spend more and this might reflect on the ticket price. Cost of organising a party or a function will be costlier by 10 to 15 per cent. Anand Krishnan, an event manager said, “Hosting a birthday or a marriage party would become expensive by 10 to 15 per cent.”     The cycle rickshaw pullers and labourers who come from nearby villages to the city and are engaged in seasonal jobs are more worried about the increased rates of renting water pumps for irrigating farms. Ram Bahadur Singh (32) a rickshaw puller who hails from Behraich says, “Earlier, renting a diesel operated water pump cost us Rs 100 per hour. It has increased to Rs 150 per hour.” Nisha (23) a beautician living in Indiranagar says rickshaw pullers have increased fares by Rs 5 to 10. Similarly, autos and tempos have increased fares by two to three rupees on most of the routes, where the fare was more that Rs 5. A trip from Munshipulia to Tedhipulia has risen from Rs 5 to 7.     Even bigger vehicles transporting goods have increased fares. A DCM (mini-truck) used to charge Rs 5,000 for a trip from Kanpur to Bahraich, but now it’s Rs 6,000. Sunil Pandey who runs a tour and travel agency says, “For outstation trips, we would now charge a rupee extra for every km covered after the fixed limit of 200 kms. For local travel, we have raised our base rate from Rs 700 to Rs 800 for a limit of 80 kms and 8 hours.”
Some Fruit For Thought The political significance of mangoes and bananas     Robert Vadra’s tweet about ‘mango people’ in a ‘banana republic’ unfairly accusing him of having done shady deals with a major property developer has created a storm in a tutti-frutti cup. Both Team Kejriwal and the BJP have taken not only the First Son-in-Law of the Nation but also the Congress to task for his supposedly disparaging reference to the country’s aam admi as ‘mango people’ and his comparing India to a ‘banana republic’.     A BJP spokesperson has asked the Congress if it agrees with Vadra’s fruity description of India and Indians. But so far, no one seems to have sought to find out from the archetypal aam admi whether he feels slighted at being translated into a ‘mango man’. Indeed, instead of feeling insulted the aam admi might well feel flattered at being equated with what is often called the ‘king of fruits’, varieties of which – such as the alfonso – sell for astronomical prices way out of reach of aam admi’s aam pockets.     A parallel case was that of Shashi Tharoor’s tweeted reference to ‘cattle class’ travel, which according to some needlessly raised political hackles. Considering the sacred status accorded to the ‘gau mata’ in India, ‘cattle class’ travellers might be deemed to be even more privileged than those in first class, particularly if the carrier they are using happens to be the government-run Air India, which is arguably international aviation’s most notably exploited milch cow.     Similarly, being called a ‘banana republic’ may be no bad thing. While the term derives from a pejorative reference to small tropical countries whose main export is the fruit which belongs to the plantain family, in the Indian context the banana plays a key role in several social and religious ceremonies and as such has auspicious connotations. While the phrase to ‘go bananas’ denotes a lack of mental balance, the fruit in question is largely what you make of it, as corroborated by a remark attributed to Rajiv Gandhi when he was prime minister that in order to raise Indian productivity ‘humko yeh bhi banana hai aur woh bhi banana hai’.     At a time of soaring food prices, however, politicians are understandably chary of references to fruits and vegetables, knowing only too well that the path to electoral victory is strewn with slippery banana skins and that public displeasure at their performance can emphatically be expressed by the throwing of tomatoes, preferably of the rotten variety. All said and done, India’s ‘mango people’ know their onions and are only too aware that given half a chance, or even less, their netas would have them all be turned into pumpkins, the local name for which is kaddu, a colloquialism for a gullible yokel.
No City For Young Women Killed by their own rules and those set by strangers Bachi Karkaria Mumbai has awoken again to a spectre that’s never really asleep. On November 7, a Spanish exchange student was raped in her flat. A day later Aryanka Hosbetkar had a corrosive chemical thrown at her face. These two women have been scarred for life, but they are luckier than Pallavi Purkayastha, who was not just savagely molested, but also murdered this August. All three were around 26 years old and were home alone in the early hours of the morning. They were not exceptions but a fact that we aren’t allowed to forget – shamefully, angrily, helplessly. These cases, and the legion of lookalikes, remind us that the liberating metro is only a sham. The new breed of smart independent women think they can live by their own rules, but they continue to be trapped.     And the city itself is an accomplice, now built in a way which ensures that they are lonely in a crowd.     All three of the recent victims had assumed that they were as safe as a house. The Spanish woman lived in upscale Perry Cross road; Aryanka in Worli, the bridge between the seductive poles of SoBo and Bandra; Pallavi’s Wadala is swiftly shedding its rags to emerge as the latest aspirant to flashy urbania.     Mumbai was the first, and for a long time the only workinggirl-friendly city. But its new breed of career women can no longer have the relaxed conversations that their predecessors shared with their neighbourhoods. The Lost Mohalla is an inevitable sub-plot of the narrative of upward mobility.     High-rise residential towers match the ambitions of these young women who come to ‘shake the pagoda tree’ of globalisation’s neo-colony. They stride through the landscaped podiums of these housing townships, laptop satchels swinging with their shiny manes. They work late, and then they latchkey into their company-rented flats. Sometimes there are partners, but mostly their boyfriends come and go, like their part-time maids, to service specific needs. They guard their privacy fiercely, because that’s what protects their new and most valued asset, independence.     But like all Faustian pacts, this now comes with a chilling price. They don’t want to know their neighbours, preferring to barricade themselves in Manhattan-like isolation. They have no use for the camaraderie of the borrowed onion. They have neither time nor inclination to bond with the homemakers who gather every evening in the garden; they remain aloof in the gym. They lack that automatic ice-breaker, children. These new habitats too are intrinsically impersonal. They may be multicultural, but it’s a mix, not a blend. So by choice and circumstance, these young women become the bigger outsiders in a community of strangers.     But they can also become victims of a more insidious set of rules. They may be able to safeguard their privacy, but their ‘bindaas’ independence is compromised by the mindset of their potential predators. Chafing caution becomes the most important tool in their survival kit. They have to be constantly conscious of the way they dress, of when they come home and with whom, For, in the building’s public spaces, they are exposed to security and maintenance staff, mofussil men unused to the metro’s insouciant matrix.     Pallavi had a live-in partner who wasn’t at home when the building’s watchman carried out his well -planned attack. He had tinkered with the electric supply, walked in with the electrician she had to summon, and pocketed her keys with which he made his second entry to rape. To him, this attractive lawyer who co-habited with a man not her husband seemed fair game. The break-in thief who saw the Spanish girl in bed found her sexually eligible simply because she was a foreigner. Aryanka’s attacker belonged to her own cycling group, but he didn’t think a woman had the right to refuse his overtures; she ‘deserved’ to pay for her defiance. As did the Mona Chowdhury, whose jilted lover hired six goons ‘just to slap her’, but one of whom slashed her face with a blade a week before the two recent attacks.     Sexual harassment is also increasing on the prowl. Conducting a straw poll in two very different audiences, Alyque Padamsee discovered that not a single woman had been spared, prompting him to launch the Izzat Ki Fauj. In Sheila Dikshit’s Delhi, such humiliations remain so endemic that no one even questions the innocuously dismissed eve-teasing unless it descends into molestation and murder, and even then eyebrows are raised at the fuss, and finger pointed at the victim. In Mamata Banerjee’s Kolkata, ‘the sexual is the political’, a ghoulish mockery of early feminism. Bangalore’s sudden metromorphosis is doubly disastrous for its career babes eager to embrace the new global culture; they are targeted by, both, local diehards and the lumpen hordes who have poured in criminally to exploit its new riches.     The urban dream on which the country has posited its future needs smart young women in equal measure. They have risen impressively to fulfil it. Should we punish them for it by turning our cities into a sexual nightmare?
VINTAGE WINESCAPES Tanushree Podder found that the Barossa Valley is not only replete with venerable vineyards producing top quality wines but also has great places to sample the synthesis of European and Australian cuisine...     That Barossa Valley, just a little over an hour by car from Adelaide is a wine region goes without saying. All I could see for miles around as I drove through were vineyards upon vineyards, with the paraphernalia of wineries providing a counterpoint!     Famous for being     A u s - t r a l i a ' s most important wine region, Barossa is rich in heritage and local culture. More than 160 years after Europeans settled there, its history continues to fascinate visitors. They come from all over to see and sample Barossa's finest Shiraz, Riesling and Grenache. The countryside is replete with rounded hills and sweeping valleys that change with every season, especially the vineyards. Originally named by Colonel Light as the Barrosa Valley (after a region in Spain - the Hill of Roses - where he fought in the Spanish Peninsula War), it was corrupted to Barossa due to the general illiteracy of the times! Twenty-five Lutheran families initially settled at Bethany in 1842; the next year others settled nearby at Langmeil, which grew into the town of Tanunda.     More and more small German groups arrived and although there was a leavening of English, Irish and Scots, the valley became the German Lutheran 'heartland' in Australia. I learnt that traditional styles of dress, food, festivals, buildings, farm implements and practices persisted into the 20th century, and a hybrid speech, 'Barossa Deutsch', developed with German and English words!     No comparable area in rural Australia is so dotted with the steeples of little churches, most of which are still well used and immaculately maintained.     The three major towns of the Barossa, each have a distinctive personality. Tanunda is generally recognised as the most German of the three with longstanding traditions dating back to the 1840s.     Because many of them came from Prussian Silesia, they called the Barossa Neu-Schlesien, or "New Silesia". for nearly three generations it were the Germans with their customs, religion, language, songs, food, houses, entertainment, festivals and dress, that made up the most dominant cultural group in the Valley.     The third town, Nuriootpa, was influenced by both communities, and today is the commercial hub of the Barossa where most of the larger stores are now located.     When Barossa struck gold in 1849, some 4,000 prospectors arrived, leading to an explosion of small trading posts and businesses. But when the gold ran out, miners per force tur ned to far ming, seeking their fortune instead in wheat, wool and wine.     In fact, though the Barossa Valley is now known as a wine region, early farming there was mixed, with an emphasis on wheat. Only in 1847 did a Bavarian immigrant Johann Gramp plant vine cuttings from Germany in the rich soil of Jacob's Creek, thus starting the first commercial vineyard.     The first wine was made in 1850, after which things moved slowly till the turn of the century. Now, of course, Barossa is one of Australia's major wineproducing areas with 45 wineries making a quarter of Australia's total vintage.     Shiraz is the queen of the Barossa and are some of the oldest vines in the world as they escaped the phylloxera epidemic that ravaged European vines in the 1800s. These venerable Shiraz vines produce highly concentrated, complex, rich red wines. Softened by some oak and resplendent with juicy berry fruit, dark bitter chocolate and slight minty characteristics, Barossa Shiraz is truly a     treat. Like Shiraz, the Grenache vines there are also some of the oldest in Australia and make for very intense wines.     Many wineries of the Barossa take advantage of the superior Riesling grapes grown in Pewsey Vale and neighbouring Eden Valley. And of course Chardonnay remains a Barossan favourite due to its versatility. And fortified wines like port and sherry have always had fans so Barossa has its own varieties too. The German settlers also brought along their food culture, which is now a feature of this region. Traditional recipes and family methods are used to create superb breads, cheeses, pickled onions and gherkins, sauces and mustards, smoked meats, condiments and more. Mettwurst, Liverwurst, and other German styles of smoked and preserved meats and baked goods permeate the Barossa Valley. I was pleasantly surprised to find that many traditional Barossa dishes have fermentation processes - no wonder, given that it's wine country too! Cakes made from yeast dough like Streuselkuchen with its crumbly mix of flour, butter, sugar and spices, are staples. I loved the Bienenstich, which has a similar yeast base and a topping of caramel scattered with slivered almonds. These are meant to look like beestings, and hence the name! Berlin buns are made from the same dough, with jam in the middle, fried then rolled in sugar - like a doughnut without the hole.     Another local fermented food is the pickled cucumber or gherkin.     Indeed, such are the culinary joys of the region; I would recommend everyone to incorporate a visit to a Farmers' Market, preferably during the weekend. These are the perfect places to sample and buy fresh local produce, at great prices. And they are the perfect place to get a taste of local life as well.
OUT OF TURN Enter, the foreign middleman M J AKBAR Kapil Sibal plays many roles, some of them quite well. But he is inimitable when he turns caustic. Sarcasm descended from his heavy eyebrows with the full force of a waterfall when he taunted the Indian middleman during his advocacy for foreign retailers in the Lok Sabha debate on FDI. Shakespeare was never so bitter about Shylock as Sibal was about the “bichauli”.     That left one a trifle perplexed. What else is Walmart other than a middleman? Capital resources and management skills have added a dimension: it is both middleman and salesman. Does this make Walmart a compassionate, caring company that should win a Nobel Prize for shopkeeping? Unlikely. Last week the N e w Yo rk T i m e s— not a Marxist newspaper — reported how American onion farmers had been squeezed into despair by Walmart, which was selling their product at nine times the purchase price. (Onions have a devastating electoral history in India.) This week we discover that Walmart was among those responsible for the devastating fire at Bangladesh's Tazreen Fashions factory in which 112 were killed a fortnight ago. According to minutes of company meetings, Walmart's director of ethical sourcing, Sridevi Kalavakolanu, insisted that a low cost of shirts was preferable to the higher cost of workers' safety. Neither patriotism nor altruism is an asset on Walmart's balance sheet.     Top this up with the news that Walmart is under investigation in America, but not in India, for bribing Indian officials. So the debate is not really about the morality of middlemen. Nor is it about the presence of international retailers in India. They are already here, but as partners of Indians. What they wanted, and have now got, is the right to run their companies as they wish, without the implicit fetters of alliance.     This is not about economic reforms either. FDI policy was announced as part of a package, including permission for foreign investment in civil aviation and sections of media. Even the Left did not object. There was a time in the post-reforms era when Tata had to abandon a proposed domestic airline because it wanted Singapore Airlines as a partner. Our skies were considered sacrosanct. But things have moved on, as they have in so many other sectors.     It is not opposition for opposition's sake, or Congress' partners Mulayam Singh Yadav, DMK and NCP would not have either protested or introduced variations — NCP wants this boon anywhere but in Maharashtra. It is certainly not about communalism; if Mayawati thinks BJP is contagious she could have rallied behind Marxists. Mayawati should check with Justice Rajinder Sachar, author of the last major study on the economic plight of Indian Muslims. His commission concluded, as he repeated in a conversation with this columnist, that UP Muslims would be especially vulnerable to FDI in retail, because of multinational sourcing and selling practices.     Retail is a multi-faceted industry held together by a people-centric axis. There are different tiers for separate income levels. Multinationals, driven by a perfectly explicable focus on profit maximisation, squeeze all levels into a common business plan. This sacrifices traditional, generic relationships between source, supply and shop at the altar of an algebra determined by the lowest common denominator in costs, and highest common denominator in prices. They possess the muscle and skill to drive out competition. When the vulnerable are hit, the social cost is high.     Fourteen parties out of the 18 that spoke in the Lok Sabha debate were critical of FDI because they felt the need for some —the stress is on some —protectionism within the farm-retail chain. The new will replace the old; that is a law of time. But sensible nations fashion change through evolution, in phases, not sudden dislocation and displacement. Trust me: the labourer who pushes a sweat-soaked vegetable handcart in the summer of Delhi or Mumbai would much prefer to work in air-conditioned halls. He perspires for very modest returns only because it is better than nothing. He needs a place in another food chain before he is summarily evicted from his present one.     FDI is not about wages or wastage or farmers or prices. Multinationals are not committed to their host countries; they work for their shareholders, and do not hide this fact. It is simply that our government has decided to trust the foreign middleman more than the Indian one.     In 1973, Indira Gandhi was under pressure from inflation and popular anger. She was advised by the Left to recover lost political ground by nationalising the wheat trade. The Left was fashionable then. Nationalisation used to win votes, as it did for Mrs Gandhi in 1971. Mrs Gandhi said no. She understood the possible damage at village level and stopped. When the Left stepped into excess, she applied the brakes. The Right has is on a rampage now.
Vikram Seth’s suitable mom Leila Seth Delivers Keynote Address On Day 2 Of Lit Carnival Shalini Umachandran | TNN Mumbai: An Oxford-and Stanford-educated child who throws away an offer from the World Bank to write poetry is bound to cause his parents some worry. And when poet and novelist Vikram Seth first told his mother Leila Seth that’s what he intended to do, she tried to dissuade him.     “I told him to take the job for five years, get the World Bank pension, and then write poetry,” said Leila, delivering the keynote address on day two of The Times of India Literary Carnival here on Saturday.     The first woman chief justice of a state high court recounted anecdotes, shared her fears of being a mother, and talked about balancing work and life in a session entitled ‘Bringing up Vikram’.     “Where does one start? Who brings up a child? Is it the parents, the grandparents, the aunts and uncles, the school, the teachers, other relatives? And when does the bringing up end?” she said during the half-hour talk at Mehboob Studios, Bandra.     In Vikram’s case it took a phalanx of relatives to bring up the boy who would grow up to become one of India’s best-known novelists.     Apart from Leila and her husband Premo, there was Leila’s mother, her younger brother and his wife, her older brother and his wife, and her uncle and his German wife who lived in London.     “I often wondered if I was doing the right thing as a mother. How was I to create the fine balance between my work and the responsibilities of being a wife and a mother?” said Leila, who wrote her autobiography ‘On Balance’ some years ago. Reassurance came from her firstborn Vikram who, when they were having a conversation about poverty in Patna, told her, “I’m so glad you don’t talk to me only about the price of onions and the stupidity of servants, like other mothers.” Vikram won a scholarship to Tonbridge in the UK at the age of 16, but Leila was reluctant to let him go.     “Drugs were rampant in British public schools,” she said. But Premo said they could not hold him back as it would leave Vikram disappointed and resentful. After he turned down the World Bank job, he tried to write poetry and self-published his first collection. No one responded. Even his novel in verse, ‘The Golden Gate’, did not make him money though it earned him some fame.     “He realised he had to write novels to sustain his love for poetry, which is what he does now,” said Leila. Vikram moved back home for seven years while he wrote “A Suitable Boy’, his most famous book.     “I have learnt that to love people you have to hold your palm open, and let them go,” she said.
At 35/kg onion price pinches city consumers Lucknow: The sudden hike in onion price has brought tears to the eyes of consumers. In past 15 days, onion price has gone up almost by three times and since onion is one of the largest consumed agriculture produces in the state, it directly affects the household budget. Two weeks back, onion was available in the wholesale market at Rs 12 per kg, but the price has hit Rs 26 per kg on Saturday. In a couple of days, it is expected to touch Rs 30 per kg. In retail market, onion is costing about Rs 35 per kg.     President of vegetables and fruits growers and sellers association, Satish Sonkar said, “The prime reason for the reduction of onion stock is due to deficiency in rainfall in Maharashtra, which is the major producer of onion. Besides, the ongoing wedding season has also resulted in fuelling of the onion price.” However, it is reported that because of increase in onion price, traders and farmers have started hoarding the onion stock. TNN
OUT OF TURN Is Rahul able and capable? M J AKBAR Nothing happens in a waiting room. 2013 is the waiting room for 2014. Do not expect too much excitement. Time will disappear through the passage of the predictable, occasionally diverted by a faint dread of what might happen once the great surgeon of democracy, the voter, gets his scalpel on the body politic in a general election.     A huge yawn greeted Mulayam Singh Yadav’s statement that there could be elections in September this year rather than March next year. Yadav’s support is crucial to the present government’s survival, and even a few months ago the shrill buzz provoked by this claim would have rattled window panes in every television studio. But no one took him seriously. He has become the boy who cried wolf and then laughed precociously at his little joke. The only people predicting a 2013 election are a few astrologers, and they have been around the block once too often.     In real terms it does not much matter whether elections are held early or on schedule. Patience is a democratic virtue. Voters take time to decide, but once they have done so they do not easily change. Politicians who see public opinion drift away always encourage the self-sustaining hope that some last-minute miracle will ensure survival. Bengal’s Marxists were palpably surprised by their defeat in the last Assembly elections, when no one else was. The famous British dictum that a week is a long time in politics is often repeated. It is equally true that a year can be a short time.     Voters know already that Dr Manmohan Singh is the last of the past. They are searching for the first of the future. If you cannot understand why Narendra Modi gets a rapt audience at a Delhi college, turn to the duller news items. We now learn that, despite the long sequence of illusion strung by UPA’s nominated cheerleaders, the Central Statistics Office predicts that GDP will grow at only 5 per cent in the coming year, the lowest in a decade and down from 6.2 per cent in the previous year. But, poor as this is, it is less politically harmful than the conclusions of another government body, the Institute of Applied Manpower Research, a think tank of the Planning Commission. It reported that despite becoming the world’s fourth largest economy, employment was not growing either in India’s non-agricultural sectors or overall. It described the Indian story as “jobless growth”.     The young like statistics as much as anyone else, but what they really want to read in newspapers is advertisements for jobs. Delhi’s college audiences believe that Modi can engineer and encourage the industrialisation that will create jobs, and has confirmed his credentials in Gujarat. That, in their lingo, is “awesome”.     The voter’s question about Rahul Gandhi is uncomplicated: what precisely has he achieved to justify a claim to become Prime Minister? Genetic entitlement is passé. Rahul is 42 but has never held a job in either the private sector or public life. A fitful presence in Parliament, interspersed with long holidays abroad, does not constitute a job. Rahul could have become a minister at any time in the last eight years, and proved he was competent, as, to take one instance, Sachin Pilot has done. Rahul has campaigned, sometimes with his sleeves rolled up, but that is not quite executive experience. And after three decades as a family borough, life for the poor in his constituency, Amethi, is far below voters’ expectations. The voter is influenced by facts, not claims.     It is a myth that the young are only searching for youth in a Prime Minister: they also want proof of competence. Age is less important than ability. When the young want glamour they go to the movies, not to Parliament.     This of course is only one factor in that complex potpourri called an Indian election; Modi’s increasing appeal, to state the obvious, still has to cross the acceptability barrier for many voters. The parliamentary system is not as personality-driven as the presidential, so local variations will throw up their own patterns.     The big danger for UPA lies in the possibility that government could lose sense of purpose in a year of drift. Politics does not offer the luxury of a gap year in governance. Schemes that were meant to kindle embers are already wandering in limbo. The Budget could provide a fillip, but finance minister P Chidambaram has a problem: there is simply no money left in the treasury for drama. Even defence is probably heading for a cut.     A waiting room does, however, provide both opportunity and time for prayer. UPA ministers should pray very hard that onion prices do not go berserk in February 2014.
Raw And The Cooked Runaway food prices highlight the need to unshackle the farm sector     Why isn’t aam admi smiling? The question’s relevant, since some cheer’s apparent in government circles over wholesale price indexbased inflation falling to 6.62% in January. Headline inflation, it’s said, will drop further by March-end. To common people, the WPI inflation figure’s a meaningless number. If WPI inflation’s dipped a fourth successive month, food prices have been riding high for far longer.     Policymakers periodically recommend release of foodgrains from government stocks to cool food inflation. While timely action in this regard is required, are we to assume ordinary folks eat wheat and rice but not vegetables and fruits? Onion price shot up 111.52% in January, from 69.24% in December 2012. Potatoes, rising 79.07%, and other vegetables also became dearer. That translates into more than just statistics for shoppers. Nor is it enough to attribute their woes to hoarding and cartelisation. With food bills soaring for a while now, why haven’t the authorities yet managed an effective crackdown?     Let’s face it. In a nation with growing and changing food demands, we’ve done little to address supply-side bottlenecks widening the gap between farm-gate and retail prices. Nor have we adequately pushed diversification beyond farmland-hogging cultivation of foodgrains. Even when we act, reform doesn’t go far enough. Take multi-brand retail FDI. We want much-needed capital to help create integrated supply chains and promote agri-business. But foreign retailers seem spooked by our stringent entryrelated conditions. They’re to invest a minimum $100 million, of which 50% must go to building back-end infrastructure. Plus they’re mandated to sizably source domestic suppliers. Lukewarm response to the government’s nod to retail FDI isn’t surprising.     We should also ask if lengthy Centre-state confabulations on amending the APMC Act will dilute populist opposition to giving retailers direct access to farmers. While delisting perishables from the Act’s ambit is desirable, states must be incentivised to junk a law that’s long coddled vested interests by limiting farm produce sellers to government-specified mandis. Besides encouraging contract farming, we must promote competition by ensuring that stifling stipulations on sales and restrictive state levies don’t hinder movement of commodities. Let’s boost farm incomes via access to markets rather than deepen farmers’ reliance on subsidies and support prices that both stoke inflation. Only by unshackling agriculture can we harness its productive potential, deliver food security and attract investments to a sector in need of upgrade in areas from irrigation to R&D. Politicians who argue otherwise care for neither struggling farmers nor inflation-hit consumers.
Govt banks on rate cut as inflation moderates TEAM TOI New Delhi: The need for interest rates to come down for boosting growth has been forcefully conveyed in the Economic Survey unveiled on Wednesday.     The Survey, which is a snapshot of the economy, makes a strong case for interest rates to ease and also identifies high interest rates as one of the factors that hobbled growth. “The government is committed to fiscal consolidation. This along with demand compression and augmented agricultural production should lead to lower inflation, giving the RBI flexibility to reduce policy rates,” the Survey said.     “Lower interest rates could provide an additional fillip to investment activity for the industry and services sectors, especially if some of the regulatory, bureaucratic and financial impediments to investments are eased,” it added. It also said that policy rate cuts by the RBI and improving business sentiment could support investments.     The central bank had tightened monetary policy to tame stubborn inflation. It had also said that only a credible fiscal consolidation plan would help in moderating rates. The survey said with moderation in the non-food manufacturing sector and global commodity prices, headline wholesale price index-based inflation may decline to 6.2%-6.6% in March 2013. But it cautioned that the recent increase in onion prices and revision in diesel prices may put some pressure.     It also said that elevated food inflation remains a concern. The Survey, which is prepared by the finance ministry, said there has been some moderation in inflation in the third quarter of 2012-13 and with the expected fiscal consolidation the current macro-economic situation creates elbow room for a more accommodative monetary policy.     “Further, with a significant part of inflation getting generated because of poor supply responses, a further shift in the policy stance of RBI, coupled with improving access to credit with moderation in cost, would be desirable,” the Survey said.It said the RBI has to weigh the costs of rapidly slowing growth against the persistently high consumer price index or retail inflation.
J U G U L A R V E I N A raw deal The cap on subsidised LPG will improve our financial and physical health Jug Suraiya What are we having for dinner? i ask Bunny. Salad, she replies. But we had salad for lunch, i protest. So we did, and we’re also having it for dinner; and for tomorrow’s lunch, and tomorrow’s dinner, says Bunny.     This is a preview of a conversation Bunny and i are likely to have in the not-too-distant future. The reason for this conversational exchange is not that out of choice we’re suddenly going to become gung-ho health faddists and go on a radical carb-free, calorie-free all-salad diet.     The reason for our going on a carb-free, calorie-free all-salad diet – 365 days a year, birthdays, wedding anniversaries and religious festivals not excluded – is not choice but necessity: a necessity necessitated by the huge price difference between the subsidised and the non-subsidised price of the liquefied petroleum gas (LPG) used for cooking. A price difference that was brought home to us, literally, the other day when the LPG man made his last delivery. Bunny handed him the 480 that we, along with everyone else, had got used to paying for a cylinder of LPG. The LPG man shook his head. It’s not 480, it’s 900; you’ve run through your annual quota of subsidised cylinders and now you’ve got to pay the full market price, said the LPG man.     So Bunny forked out 900 from the household hisaab money she’s in charge of, and did some quick calculations. The upshot of her calculations was that we could either afford non-subsidised cooking gas at 900 bucks a pop, or we could afford food which the gas would cook; we couldn’t afford both.     So what do we do; eat cooking gas instead of eating food? i asked. You can’t eat cooking gas; we’ll have to eat food which doesn’t need cooking and cooking gas, said Bunny, and went off to find a recipe book for uncooked food. Which is where our future conversation comes in.     By capping the quota of subsidised LPG, the sarkar has done a very clever thing: it has put the country on a diet of salad, which is just about the only dish you can eat which requires no cooking. By putting us on a salad diet, the sarkar has ensured both our financial as well as physical health.     By making us pay the unsubsidised price of LPG, the sarkar will reduce its fiscal deficit which is weighing down the economy. This reduction of the fiscal deficit will be good for the country’s economic health. By making us eat uncooked salad, the sarkar will make us reduce our body weight. This reduction of body weight will be good for our physical health, as everyone knows that too much body weight can lead to high BP, diabetes, coronary disease and – for all we know – Grade Three dandruff in the nostrils.     There’s only small hitch in the sarkar’s otherwise brilliant health strategy. The price of veggies being what it is – and going up every day – who the heck can afford to eat salad? Tomatoes? Onions? Lettuce? Yeah, sure. And while we’re at it, how about throwing in some rubies and emeralds as garnish? Fortunately, salad apart there is one dish that requires no cooking and is also totally carb-free and calorie-free. In fact it’s totally free, in all senses, and it’s what the sarkar will have us all switch to: it’s called love and fresh air.     jug.suraiya@timesgroup.com     http://blogs.timesofindia.indiatimes.com/jugglebandhi/ 
Markets in the city flooded with cheap quality herbal gulal Priyangi Agarwal | TNN Lucknow: Do not get lured if you see varied gulal colours like bright pink, yellow, purple, red and green with ‘herbal’ and ‘100% environment-friendly’ tag on the packets. You need to exercise caution as most of these gulal packets, with herbal tags, are cheap knock-off and contain chemicals which can cause skin allergies.     With growing demand for organic colours, many socalled environment-friendly colours are up on sale in the market. As per the claims made by vendors, these are manufactured with natural products. The herbal gulal easily available on the roadside carries a price tag of Rs 15-20 per 100gm while the cost of branded ones is Rs 60 per 100gm.     “As herbal gulal is made from natural extracts like fruits, vegetables, flowers and turmeric, it cannot come at such low price. Apart from it, the market price also includes manufacturing, transportation and packaging costs and trader’s margin,” said Umang Goel, manufacturer of a branded herbal gulal. Goel added that the consumers can judge the quality of colours from the wide price difference.     Dr Sunil Chauhan, skin specialist at Shyama Prasad Mukherjee Hospital, says, “During Holi, we receive cases where people with sensitive skin had applied herbal gulal but developed skin allergies. This happens because such types of gulal are cheap in quality and contain chemicals that cause side-effects. The most common kind of skin reactions is irritation and rashes.”     Moreover, there is no government agency for verification and quality control of colours. “No such body exists in our state,” said SKS Rathore, principal scientist and head of Technology Transfer and Business Development, National Botanical Research Institute (NBRI). The concept of herbal colour was developed by NBRI in 2001 and it has shared the technology with four companies. All the products have logo of Council of Scientific and Industrial Research.     Rathore said there is no exact way of finding whether colours are herbal or not. He, however, added that real organic colours can be distinguished from an ordinary gulal by texture and smell. The texture of herbal gulal is soft and carries a natural fragrance instead of perfumed smell. “The other way to be assured of quality is to rub gulal on your hands. If itching occurs after 15 minutes then the gulal is a cheap knock-off,” said Rathore.     Besides, there is no chemical test to find the quality of colours. “The ideal way is either to go for gulal variants manufactured by research laboratories or prepare them at home. One can boil fruits and vegetables at night and make herbal colours from them which would be ready by morning,” said Mukul Das,     chief scientist,     Indian Institute of Toxi c o l o g y     Research. Home Colour Ways To Prepare Herbal Gulal At Home Pinkish Red Colour | Soak, crush and boil flowers of ‘palash’ and marigold Magenta | Boil onion peels Red | Boil Beetroot or Pomegranate peels or dry rose petals Dark Orange | Boil carrot Dark brown | Boil mehendi leaves and tea Yellow | Mix turmeric power with gram flour or crush dry marigold flowers Purple | Boil amla and black grapes Blue | Crush Jarcanda flowers Green | Boil spinach, coriander and mint leaves
Creating better storage facilities The agricultural sector of India is a major contributor to its economic growth. But, storage remains a major hindrance and hence, the need for organised warehousing units is the need of the hour VANDANA SINGH     According to a report, the total warehousing space available in India is huge but a very small fraction of it is in the organised sector, resulting in massive wastage of grains, fruits and vegetables. An estimated 20-40 per cent of these products are wasted out of total harvested.     In a country where a major chunk of the population goes without food while millions of tons of grains rot in the fields because of inadequate storage facilities, the magnanimity of the crisis can be understood. Edibles generally have a low shelf life while vegetables are all the more vulnerable. Therefore, proper storage of products or goods becomes important and critical. Every year, one can notice a steep hike in prices of onions and tomatoes right after monsoons. The reason is lack of adequate storage space. At the same time, time gap between production and consumption is very important because of the highly competitive market. Here, warehousing plays a crucial role in maintaining the demand-supply gap as the demand for particular products is low in one particular season and increases all of a sudden with sudden changes in climatic conditions. In the last decade, as per recent data, more than 1,300,000 tonnes of food grain got rotted away in storage because of lack of modern warehouses. Inefficient infrastructure and high distribution costs are detrimental factors.     As per Mukul Gupta, chief financial officer, Om Logistics, "It is imperative for all the logistics companies to utilise their resources in the best possible manner. Warehouses need to be equipped with modern tools and machinery, which can enable the handling of products in the best possible way, without wasting space. Besides, the workers needs to be trained at regular intervals and should be exposed to better ways of handling the storage facilities. The crux is to provide the best services at reasonable cost to the 'value for money' conscious customers."
Air passengers can carry own meals to cut cost Few Flyers Know Of Provision, But Idea Gaining Ground TIMES NEWS NETWORK Mumbai: At a time when airlines are looking to put a price tag on nearly every service and amenity, food is an item where flyers can cut cost.     Very few air passengers know that they can carry their own food on flights, be it a home-packed meal or one bought from a restaurant at a cost lower than that of a taste-less in-flight meal.     A number of food items can be carried onboard flights, particularly in the domestic sector since the likelihood of food rotting on shorter journeys is lower.     The freedom, though, comes with caveats. On grounds of security, packing in metal cutlery is a no-no. So is taking along soup, dal, jelly, salad dressing or any liquid or gel-like food item, except in small quantities.     A flight attendant with a lowcost carrier said, “Though the trend has not caught on in India, some frequent flyers, people travelling with children and those following food restrictions do bring their own meals.” She added that most of the passengers who do so “are sensible enough not to pack in pungent and smelly food such as fish, raw onions and garlic”.     Although not popular so far, the trend of flying with own food may take off now as air travel becomes dearer. Most Indian carriers are charging for comforts like seats with extra legroom after the Centre cleared airfare unbundling.     Sudhir Awasthi, an Indorebased businessman and a frequent flyer, said, “I do not know about the economy class but in business class on domestic flights I have had co-passengers who brought their own food.” Awasthi too prefers the practice over buying in-flight meals.     “On average I fly twice a week and it is mostly very early or late in the day. I prefer to get my own nutritious and light meal. I have never had a problem with security. Also, I do not like the upma, poha, idlis, pulao and parathas served on flights,” said Awasthi. When flying from Mumbai, he usually buys a meal either from a food counter at the airport or from a restaurant outside. Airlines wake up to woes of disabled flyers Mumbai: Domestic and international airlines based in India will soon be unable to turn down passengers with physical or mental impairment. The Indian aviation regulator has finally woken up to passengers with special needs with a draft that attempts to make air travel possible and less stressful for such passengers. “There are several good points in the draft like permitting escorts and guide dogs into the aircraft cabin, giving passengers the option of using their own wheel chairs etc,” said Merry Barua, the Director of Action For Autism in India, a non-profit society. “But I was absolutely taken aback to see that autism was not included in the draft,” she said, adding that autistic passengers are the most discriminated against and least reported of all. TNN SERVICE ECONOMY AFTER THE UNION MINISTRY OF CIVIL AVIATION ALLOWED FARE UNBUNDLING, MOST AIRLINES IN INDIA HAVE BEGUN CHARGING FOR THE FOLLOWING SERVICES AND ITEMS: Seats with extra legroom Window and aisle seats Check-in luggage over 15 kg Musical instruments Sports equipment Food has to be bought on low-cost flights
Inflation marginally up at 4.86% TIMES NEWS NETWORK New Delhi: Inflation marginally accelerated in June to a five-month high of 4.86% on the back of stubborn food prices posing a fresh challenge for the central bank and the government struggling with grim macroeconomic data.     Data released by the commerce ministry on Monday showed the annual rate of inflation, based on monthly WPI (wholesale price index), stood at 4.86% in June compared to 4.70% for the previous month and 7.58% during the corresponding month of the previous year.     Moderating wholesale price inflation had come as a huge relief for the government grappling with stubborn price pressures ahead of key state elections. The sudden rise in inflation comes against the backdrop of falling exports, a wobbly currency and sliding industrial output growth. High food prices posed a fresh worry as vegetable prices rose an annual 9.74% in June after displaying some signs of easing in the previous months. Vegetable prices shot an annual 16.47% in June, while onion prices rose 114% during the month and emerged as a fresh pressure point.     Economists said they expect RBI to hold rates when it reviews monetary policy later this month. “June WPI inflation moderately increased but the details in no way provided any significant comfort for inflation dynamics in India. Food inflation (as also seen in the CPI inflation) re-emerged as a key concern even as manufactured products prices were contained due to demand erosion,” Indranil Pan, chief economist at Kotak Mahindra Bank, said. “However,implications of the recent rupee depreciation are likely to take effect over the core WPI inflation over the next few months, implying that the comfort out of the lower demand scenario could erode. We see the RBI maintaining status quo at the July 30 meeting with the likelihood of an extended pause through fiscal year 2014 having risen significantly,” Pan said.     Experts said they expect inflation to return to 6-7% range due to a combination of factors including a weak rupee, which is expected to raise the price of imported inputs. “Demand pressures will remain weak, but we could see some lift in core inflation. With a weak currency, imported costs of production go up and eventually businesses might have to pass them on to the consumers,” rating agency Crisil said in a note.
Factory growth shrinks 2.2% in June Dips For Second Consecutive Month, Exports Grow Fastest In 2 Years TIMES NEWS NETWORK New Delhi: There was grim news on the industrial output front but exports, which rose at their fastest pace in almost two years, provided some relief. However, high stubborn retail inflation sustained the pressure as policymakers battle a sharp slowdown.     Dismal industrial output growth numbers raised apprehension that the first quarter economic growth may fall short of the 5% mark, piling more pressure on the government to reverse the trend. The Indian economy slowed to a decade low of 5% in 2012-13 and the sustained slowdown has raised fears that growth may falter in the current fiscal as well.     Data released by the Central Statistics Office (CSO) on Monday showed industrial output fell for the second consecutive month in June, declining by 2.2%. What made matters worse was the fact that industrial production had contracted 2% in June 2012 as well. Even the May 2013 data was revised downwards to a decline of 2.9% from the previous fall of 1.6%, highlighting the stress in the sector.     “The trend is very disturbing and it is a wake-up call. The slowdown is now well dispersed and if steps are not taken it will spread to services as well,” said D K Joshi, chief economist at rating agency Crisil.     Indian Inc said the factory data was a concern and stepped up calls for easing tight monetary policy to boost growth. “The IIP figures for June are indeed a matter of concern and clearly indicate that supply side bottlenecks and weak consumer demand are weighing down on industrial growth,” Naina Lal Kidwai, Ficci president, said. “The continuous decline in manufacturing will impact the employment scenario and manufacturing can be revived by stimulating demand, lowering the interest rates and expediting investment projects.” But there was some cheer for the government as exports staged a smart rebound in July, rising by 11.6% to $25.8 billion, while imports declined 6.2% to $38.1 billion. Gold and silver imports, slowed to $2.9 billion in July from $4.4 billion in the same period last year, and helped keep the trade deficit at the previous month’s level.     Commerce secretary S R Rao said the steps announced by the government to boost exports should help in the months ahead. “We do hope that these measures would help us in improving our export target performance in the coming months...continuing interest in Africa, Latin America, Asean and Far East regions should be helping us (in increasing exports),” Rao told reporters.     Indian exports have remained sluggish due to the slowdown in vital markets, while imports had surged led to a widening of the trade deficit and creating pressure on rupee. But the pressure on the prices front, particularly food inflation remained and highlighted the need to raise supplies. While retail inflation eased marginally in July, it still hovered near the double-digit mark at 9.64% compared to 9.87% for the previous month. The corresponding provisional inflation rates for rural and urban areas for July 2013 are 9.14% and 10.26%, while the final Inflation rates for rural and urban areas for June 2013 were 9.63% and 10.13% respectively.     “CPI (consumer price inflation) is a problem. There we have to increase supplies,” finance minister P Chidambaram told reporters, while unveiling measures to stem the rupee’s sharp slide.     On the industrial output front, the manufacturing sector continued to be in doldrums, posting a decline of 2.2% compared to a fall of 3.2% in the year earlier period. The mining sector, which has been hit by regulatory delays, fell 4.1% in June compared with a decline of 1.1% in June 2012, while growth in the electricity sector remained stagnant. The capital goods sector, which is a key gauge of industrial activity, fell 6.6% in June compared to a decline of 27.7% in the same month earlier year, while the consumer durables sector fell 10.5% in June 2013 compared with an expansion of 9.1% in June 2012. Govt may not ban onion export New Delhi:The government is unlikely to ban export of onions in the wake of soaring retail prices and expects the situation to ease over the next fortnight. “We expect the new crop to hit the markets in the 15 days or so and help cool down prices,” said a government officer, who is part of the group closely monitoring the price of the politically-sensitive kitchen ingredient.     The commerce department, which has traditionally opposed any export curbs, has submitted data that suggests that exports have not contributed to the price increase. While the numbers were unavailable, officials said exports have been low and tapering off in recent weeks as farmers are able to realize better value in the domestic market.     In parts of Delhi, onion prices soared to Rs 80 a kg. A spike in onio prices had cost the BJP the 1998 assembly polls in the capital. TNN
Short supply from Maha, onion at 60 per kg Experts Also Blame It On Export Ban TIMES NEWS NETWORK Lucknow: Sudden hike in retail price of onion, from Rs 35 to Rs 60 per kilogram, has hit household budget. Even in the wholesale market, the onion price is nearly Rs 50 per kg, which a week back was around Rs 30. As per vegetable sellers, the spurt in onion prices is due to shortage of supply from Maharashtra, the major producer of onion. “Heavy rainfall led to the reduction of stock in major onion producing states like Maharashtra. Low production but increased transportation and labour costs fuelled the prices. Besides, the decision of agriculture minister Sharad Pawar of not imposing ban on export of onion has pushed the prices further,” said Pervez Alam, president of Lucknow Phal Sabzi Vyapar Mandal.     President of vegetables and fruits growers and sellers association Satish Sonkar said, “Onion price will continue to rise further this month because of short     production. Consumers will get respite only when onion stock from Karanataka hits the market next month.” But, it is also reported that because of rise in onion prices, many traders and farmers have started hoarding the stock. The prices of other vegetables too have spiralled in the past one week. Pumpkin price has shot up from Rs 13 to 24 per kg in a week in local mandis. Similarly, the retail price of capsicum was Rs 45 per kg last week but is available now for Rs 80 per kg. The cost of cauliflower has gone up from Rs 35 to 60 per piece.     Cabbage is selling at Rs 35 per piece which used to cost Rs 15 a piece. Even the cost of cowpea has risen from Rs 40 to 60 per kg. “The shelf-life of some vegetables is less during rainy season,” reasoned Suresh, a vegetable vendor.     The burgeoning veggies price is affecting the household budget adversely. Chandra Bisht, a homemaker, said, “We cannot think of any dish in which onion is not used. With prices of other vegetables on the rise as well, it has become difficult to stick to the family budget.”
History shows onions can make parties cry Rising Cost Of Vegetable Hits Aam Admi Hard Akshaya Mukul | TNN New Delhi: It is no big deal that for a Parliament used to discussing and dissecting scams worth thousands of crores, the dissipating odour of onions hasn’t reached its hallowed portals.     For more than a week of the Monsoon session little work has been done, and even less time has been spent discussing spiraling prices of essential commodities.     After all, it has only touched Rs 100/kg and not yet vanished from the subsidized food plates of honorable members of Parliament. Is it the reflection of a changing politics or have our leaders completely forgotten that a politician who does not know his onion cannot curry favour with voters?     Call it the demise of institutional memory from our polity or plain cynicism that there was a time when growing onion price contributed to the fall of otherwise credible Janata government in 1981 forcing Indira Gandhi, who made a big comeback after her unceremonious exit in 1977, to call it the Onion election.     Soon, she realized onions had made her cry as well. By November 1981, prices had sky-rocketed — Rs 6/kg —that Lok Dal’s Rameshewar Singh walked into the Rajya Sabha wearing a garland of onions and posters attached to it during the winter session. Chairperson M Hidayatullah asked him what was Singh wearing around the neck. After Singh complained of rising onion prices, Hidayatullah, known for ready wit, told him. “Let’s see what you will wear when the prices of tyres go up or for that matter the prices of shoes.”     Some members of Congress (S) protested with onions in their hand which they put on Hidayatullah’s desk. As the chairperson ordered removal of onions from his desk, Piloo Mody shot back, “It is very unfortunate that chairman should take away all the onions with him.” L K Advani then at his fiery best reminded the Congress how it had made onion an election issue and conveniently swept it under the carpet.     Next day, Mody offered Rao Birendra Singh Rs 100 in the Upper House, asking him to get 50 kg of onions if the price had really come down to Rs 2 per kg. Rameshwar Singh went a step ahead and put Rs 1,300 on Hidyatullah’s desk asking him to organize cheap onions. Amid the din, Congress’s Hari Singh Nalwa actually took the money and promised to supply onions. Such wit and repartee that made the larger point and forced the government to take action are now only part of archives as MPs rarely talk of onions or price rise and even when they do a deserted House greets them.     But voters have a way of settling scores — something the political class knows too well. Be it the late Pramod Mahajan on whom agitated Nashik farmers had hurled onions in 2000 or the BJP that met its nemesis during the 1998 election in Delhi and Rajasthan, onions do shape opinions.
Inflation jumps to 5-month high TIMES NEWS NETWORK New Delhi: Rising vegetable prices and the impact of a weak rupee pushed inflation to a five-month high of 5.79% in July, posing yet another challenge for Asia’s third-largest economy battling to defend the rupee and boost growth.     Official data released on Wednesday showed inflation, as measured by the wholesale price index, jumped to 5.79% in July from the previous month’s 4.86%. Easing wholesale price inflation had fuelled expectations of a moderation in tight monetary policy but the slide of the rupee against the dollar has dashed those hopes for now.     Food inflation shot up to double-digit in July as onion prices spurted nearly 144.94% year-on-year, while overall vegetable prices rose an annual 46.59%. Cereal prices rose an annual 17.66% in July sustaining the pressure but prices of pulses declined 7.39%. Some relief was visible in softening milk and fruits prices.     Retail inflation is hovering around double digits and FM P Chidambaram has acknowledged that consumer price inflation is a problem and supplies need to be raised to tackle the situation. Policymakers said they expect a good monsoon to moderate food prices.
HOT POTATO Amid LoC firing, India plans to buy Pak onions May Import From China, Iran, Egypt Dipak Kumar Dash & Vishwa Mohan | TNN New Delhi: Amid rising tensions along the Line of Control, the government has shortlisted Pakistan among the countries from where it plans to import onions in order to tide over the shortage of the staple. The Centre on Wednesday settled on the import option, identifying, besides Pakistan, China, Iran and Egypt to source onions and help ease the domestic supply shortage.     Announcing a clutch of measures amid concerns about the political repercussions of spiraling onion prices, the government has set the minimum export price (MEP) of onion at $650 per tonne to discourage exports. The publicsector agriculture marketing company NAFED — National Agriculture Cooperative Marketing Federation of India — will import onion “at best rates and offer the same for domestic consumption in the country”.     At present, onion price is the cheapest in Iran followed by China, Egypt and Pakistan, a government source said. The decision was taken at an inter-ministerial meeting on Wednesday. Sources said imposition of MEP was the first option for the government to check onion exports and importing the commodity would be the second option. The MEP was scrapped in May last year, and its re-introduction is aimed to render exports non-profitable, the assumption being that traders would prefer to sell their products domestically to make more profit.     Sources said commerce and industry minister Anand Sharma had floated the idea of imposing the MEP when onion prices touched Rs 35 per kg but the idea was shelved due to opposition from political parties. Officials said strict quarantine rules, which acted as an obstacle to onion imports from China and other countries, would be eased to enable the entry of the staple.     It was also decided that NAFED will procure onion at the best prevailing rates from Lasalgaon/Pimpalgaon in Maharashtra and that would be offered to all state marketing and supply federations at a nominal service charge of 2%.
NEWS DIGEST Durga’s husband shifted to Jhansi The UP government on Wednesday transferred 16 IAS officers, including the husband of suspended IAS officer Durga Sakthi Nagpal. Abhishek Singh, currently posted as executive officer in Dadri municipality, has been transferred to Jhansi as joint magistrate. P 7 Modi’s I-Day speech challenge to PM Narendra Modi has thrown a challenge at PM Manmohan Singh on the eve of Independence Day, saying his speech in a far corner of Gujarat will draw as much attention as Singh’s from the ramparts of Delhi’s Red Fort. P 11 India may import onions from China, Pak, Iran: Concerned about the political repercussions of spiraling onion prices, the Centre is planning to import the staple from Pakistan, China, Iran and Egypt to tide over its domestic shortage. P 11 Eurozone escapes 18-mth recession: The eurozone, led by Germany and France, on Wednesday finally snapped out of an 18-month recession which tested the currency to the limit and imperilled global growth. P 19 
Pvt players to import onions: Govt Dipak Kumar Dash & Sidhartha | TNN New Delhi: Private players have placed orders to import around 7,000 tonnes of onions, while the government leaned on a public sector company to ship the key kitchen ingredient to beat the domestic shortage. The moves came even as the food and consumer affairs ministry said it will seek export curbs if prices did not ease in a fortnight.     Senior government officials said Project Export Corporation was on Friday asked to import onions even as private players have approached the National Plant Protection Office to meet the quarantine requirements on agricultural imports.     Although the government was earlier looking to get onions from China, Iran and Malaysia, Pakistan is expected to be the likely source given that it is seen as the fastest source for imports.     “We won’t be able to get onions within seven-eight days from China or Malaysia,” said an officer familiar with the developments.     The situation will be reviewed on Sunday when food and consumer affairs minister K V Thomas meets agriculture minister Sharad Pawar.     Thomas said his ministry may push for temporary restriction on onion exports as the final option if prices don’t soften in the next fortnight. Commerce and agricultural ministries have so far opposed a ban on imports and even Thomas acknowledged that.
TEAR-JERKERS Report finds that onion crisis largely man-made Rajeev Deshpande TNN New Delhi: The onion crisis gripping the country appears to be largely man-made. Slow release of stocks of the staple by a clutch of traders, rather than a shortfall in production, has emerged as a key reason for retail prices rocketing to Rs 70-80 a kg.     The Centre uncovered the plot — seemingly hatched by traders operating out of major onion markets in Maharashtra’s Nashik — when it sought to figure out why a relatively small drop in production led to sharply reduced market arrivals.     “It appears that stored onions are being released slowly into the market which together with continuing demand is pushing up prices,” said a note considered by a review chaired by Union Cabinet secretary Ajit Seth recently.     Confirming the official stand, Union food and consumer affairs minister K V Thomas has told TOI, “Delayed release of stocks and hoarding has been noticed. States concerned have been asked to intervene”.     Traders in Lucknow also confirmed that there was a sudden fall in supply from Maharashtra. “Consumers will get respite only when onion stock from Karnataka hits the market next month,” said Satish Sonkar, president of vegetables and fruits growers and sellers association, UP. Pvt firms place import orders     Private firms have placed orders to import 7,000 tonnes of onions even as the Centre is relying on a public sector company to ship the staple from abroad to beat the domestic shortage. The food and consumer affairs ministry said it would seek export curbs if prices did not ease soon. P 10 Onion production declined by only 5% T homas duction said was the around dip in 7 lakh protones, while exports rose slightly. He hoped that raising the minimum export price and tough measures by the state governments would help stabilize onion prices in a week.     The math that puzzled government officials was: Though onion production in 2012-13 declined by only 5% and storage was less by just 2 lakh tonnes, market arrivals fell steeply by 20-40% in June-July.The declining arrivals made even less sense as the National Horticulture Research and Development Foundation reported onion stocks at a healthy 8-9 lakh tonnes — sufficient to meet the nationwide demand till the next kharif crop reaches markets.The purported price manipulation was traced to the doorstep of traders controlling release of onion stocks to Nashik’s major markets where rates are threatening to breach the Rs 5,000 a quintal mark.
OUT OF TURN Reboot or rewind to 1963 M J AKBAR It is distressing to note that India, which gave mathematics the noble concept of zero, should have missed the chance to offer history a perfect numerical symmetry. If a dollar was worth one rupee in 1947, then 66 years later poetic justice suggests it should be worth 66 rupees instead of a tawdry variable between 61 or 62. A rupee a year is a lyrical measure of decline. A few rupees more, and the Indian economy could have become such a sing-along nursery rhyme.     Satire is the thin wedge that separates fear from panic. Indian businessmen are not yet panic-stricken, but they are edging towards the zone of fear. As haemorrhaging international confidence in India weakens fund inflows, they know we cannot easily defend a rupee under siege. The statistics are chilling. Debt in the current fiscal is running at $172 billion. The Reserve Bank has foreign exchange for just seven months’ imports, which would have been manageable if the bleed was not moving from drip to gush. There is deep worry that vacuous governance and an unstable political environment will lead us to the door of the IMF in Washington, a large begging bowl in hand. Instead of answers, the UPA government is offering alibis, some of them so lame they seem struck with polio at birth. India has become the worst story in the BRIC club.     A robust economy, which is what India had become, does not wither because it has been suddenly hit by lightning; it enters a coma, limb by limb. This UPA administration believed that it could buy time with illusion, or by passing the blame to external factors or home-grown socialists. Last year, it even tried to scapegoat former finance minister Pranab Mukherjee after he moved upstairs to the President’s palace, and P Chidambaram was given the finance portfolio.     A sudden flurry of stories appeared— foreign correspondents seemed particularly gullible — suggesting that Chidambaram would, with a wizard’s touch, strengthen the rupee, slash the energy bill, reduce the deficit, pump up industrial production and tame inflation. Tell that to the onions in 2013.     Those at the rough end of inflation, the poor, are tired of excuses. They look at a nourishing monsoon and wonder why, as they head to the vegetable market, prices go up when there is drought, and rise further when there is rain. This is their translation of a government’s economic record. In 2005 a still buoyant Dr Manmohan Singh promised the nation from the ramparts of the Red Fort that poverty and ignorance (the term he used was jehalat) would end in 10 years. His plaintive admission, in this year’s Independence speech, that there was still a long way to go, is bitter testament to a failed decade.     The only culprit that the government can find is gold. Gold is the minor luxury that a confident economy purchases for its middle class. The cost of gold imports has become a problem only because the economy has imploded.     Analogy comes easily in conversation. Those with a reasonable memory have begun to worry about a return to 1991, when we sent our national gold reserves to London as collateral for foreign exchange. If we are not careful we might be staring at 1963, when finance minister Morarji Desai imposed gold control to save foreign exchange. Desai, and a much-weakened prime minister, Jawaharlal Nehru, could issue orders and change laws but they could not thwart the Indian’s appetite for gold, even when he was in a much more abstemious mood half a century ago. All that happened in the 1960s was that the consumer turned to smugglers. From this emerged underworld icons like Haji Mastan, Kareem Lala and their heir, Dawood Ibrahim. India has paid a heavy price, including the whiplash of terrorism.     When a nation’s confidence is undermined, adversaries abroad pounce to take advantage, and uncertainty within encourages social tensions. In the 1960s we were tested by both China and Pakistan; today Pakistan ambushes an Indian army patrol, kills five jawans and passes a resolution in its parliament condemning Indian aggression. We will not, thank heaven, return to the sixties. India is much stronger now, and there is only so much harm that an indecisive government can inflict upon a nation’s ability. All governments in a democracy are temporary.     Equally, the optimism that we had begun to take for granted, perhaps out of complacency, has been derailed. The challenge of 2014 is not going to be winning an election, but restoring the economy to health and vigour. A nation is only as strong as its economy. There is no magic wand as we enter our 67th year. There was no wand in 1991 either. We recovered because we needed the shock to come to our senses. It is time for a radical reboot once again.
Now, robbers find a truck of onions attractive Ashish Mehta I n an unusual case of robbery, three armed men hijacked a truck carrying onions on the Jaipur-Delhi highway in Rajasthan’s Jaipur district. The truck was recovered after two hours. The retail price of onion is anywhere between Rs 65 and Rs 75 per kg at various markets in Jaipur. The incident took place on Sunday at 10pm when the truck driver Mintu and his cleaner Rinku were on their way to Meerut after loading 40 tonnes of onion from a mandi in Sikar.“The two said three men in a vehicle blocked their way at Shahpura village and accused them of hitting their vehicle. They asked them (Mintu and Rinku) to came out of the vehicle to settle their loss,” a policeman said.
Onion prices show signs of cooling Dipak Kumar Dash TNN New Delhi: There were signs of onion prices falling in certain cities on Monday. Similar correction in prices are expected in the next few days as arrival has increased almost two-fold at Asia’s largest onion market in Lasalgaon. Similar was the trend in Pimpalgaon and Delhi.     Food ministry sources said higher quantity of onion arriving at markets will increase supply across the country in the next few days that would result decline in prices. On Monday, the total onion arrival at Lasalgaon reached 9,000 quintals against 4,580 quintals last week. At Lasalgaon, Pimpalgaon and Delhi, the total arrival was around 22,000 quintals.     Even wholesale prices at Lasalgaon fell from Rs 4,700 a quintal last week to Rs 3,251 on Monday. Mandis in Agra, Delhi, Mumbai and Indore also saw the same trend. Retail prices fell by Rs 5 and Rs 10 per kg in Agra and Delhi.     As the prices showed signs of correction, government is unlikely to take the extreme step of banning export of the commodity. Sources said the fall in price is due to increased supply.     For the full report, log on to www.timesofindia.com 
T H E Y SA I D I T
Imports from Pak to cool onion prices Vishwa Mohan TNN New Delhi: Retail onion prices have bounced back to Rs 70-80 a kg and cooperative major Nafed on Wednesday floated tenders inviting traders to import the must-have veggie from Pakistan, Iran, China and Egypt.     Officials expect the initial consignments from Pakistan to roll in by early next month. The Wagah Border may be preferred for the imports. It’s an easy, less time-taking route than the Karachi-Mumbai sea lane. Later supplies from Iran, China and Egypt will keep the chain going in the coming months. However, imports are expected to take at least two weeks to ease prices. Onion prices may ease by Sept-end     Nafed took a week to float the tenders after the government decided on imports on August 14. It asked private traders to submit their proposals with final rates per tonne by August 27. The shortlisted importers will have another seven days to deliver onions to the federation which will distribute them.     The federation came out with the tender a day after public sector company PEC Limited floated an expression of interest for empanelmentof internationalsuppliersfor importof3 lakh tonnes of onion.     These supplies, coupled with relatively easy flow of the produce from domestic wholesale markets (mainly Maharashtra and Karnataka), are expected to bring down the retail price substantially towards the end of next month and early October — a month before Delhi,Rajasthan,MadhyaPradesh andChhattisgarh go to assembly polls.
LEARNING WITH THE TIMES Low foreign inflows added to CAD woes What is current account deficit (CAD)? The inflow of money into the country and outflows from it are summarized in what is called the balance of payments (BoP). You could think of it as a balance sheet vis-à-vis the rest of the world. The BoP is broken down into two major components — the current account and the capital account.     The current account includes all inflows and outflows of a routine nature. Thus, exports of goods and services, remittances received from Indians abroad, foreign tourists bringing money into India and similar other items form part of the inflows or the credit side of the current account. Conversely, imports, remittances by expatriates to their home countries, Indians travelling abroad form part of the outflows or debit. When outflows exceed inflows, you have a current account deficit. Of course, if inflows exceeded outflows, it would be a surplus.     The capital account deals with longer-term flows, like borrowings, investments, assistance by India to other countries or to India by others, and so on. The broad principle is that any inflow or outflow that tends to necessitate future transactions (like loans being returned) will be part of the capital account. Here again, the difference between outflows and inflows would be the capital account surplus — if inflows exceed outflows — or deficit. If the capital surplus is not enough to cover CAD, the country will have to take money out of its forex reserves to bridge the difference, thereby reducing its reserves. If the capital account surplus is larger than CAD, the difference gets added to the reserves. Why is CAD so important? In effect, it is a measure of how much an economy is dependent on capital flows from abroad to help it meet its current needs. Obviously, if this dependency is high, it is a sign of a problem. To see how high the dependency is, economists look not at the absolute level of CAD, but its level in relation to the size of the economy, since a tiny economy with, say, a CAD of $200 billion is clearly in a bigger hole than a large economy with the same absolute level. Hence, what is looked at is the CAD as a percentage of GDP. In India’s case, this is now at about 4.8%, a significant rise from about 1.3% in 2007-08. What this means is that India’s demand for foreign currency, particularly dollars, has gone up dramatically in the last few years (mainly on account of oil and gold imports) while supply hasn’t quite kept pace (thanks to weak exports).     The widening CAD could have been funded by a heavy inflow of foreign investments — direct (FDI) and/or institutional (FII), but that hasn’t happened either. Policy paralysis, political uncertainty, sliding industrial output and a weakening economy (as evident from a     quarter-on-quarter     drop in growth figures) has turned off     foreign investors, who     now find they can get     better returns on their capital elsewhere in the world.     This demand-supply mismatch of dollars is at the core of the US currency becoming more expensive. How are US bonds connected to all this?     US treasury bonds     are essentially instruments floated by     the US Federal Reserve (the American     equivalent of the RBI) to borrow money. All other things being equal, the status of the US as the world’s largest economy and the dollar as a global reserve currency means that investors see putting their money in US bonds as arguably the most risk-free option. However, when US treasury bonds offer very low rates of interest, this advantage can be offset by others offering significantly higher rates. In such a situation, portfolio investors, who roam the world looking for the best possible returns, are more likely to invest elsewhere. Emerging markets, including India, are often the biggest gainers in such situations. When the US economy is doing well, the flows can reverse. This is what is happening as the US economy shows visible signs of recovering after a prolonged crisis (starting late-2008). What is the QE and why is its tapering seen as a problem? Following the 2008 crisis, the US Fed resorted to bond-buying as a means of boosting the economy. When the Fed buys up bonds, it is effectively releasing more money into the markets and hence reducing interest rates (since interest rate is essentially the cost of demand for money, so when supply rises to meet demand, interest rate comes down — just as, say, the price of onion will fall when supply in the market rises). This was dubbed a ‘quantitative easing’ measure, hence the QE. This made borrowing in the US cheaper and hence incentivized borrowers to invest (in housing or in their businesses). In June this year, Fed chief Ben Bernanke signalled that the QE process might be tapered off. That would imply interest rates in     the US climbing     again. That, as we     saw earlier, could     lead to investors     flocking to the US     and pulling out of emerging markets, including India.
Traders make 150 crore with hoarded onions Create Artificial Supply Crunch To Sell The Crop At Premium Tushar Pawar TNN Nashik: Traders flooded markets across the country with 5 lakh quintals of hoarded onions between August 12 and 15 raking in Rs 150 crore. They had held their stocks back driving up demand and prices.     Between June and July, traders mopped up the onion crop from tillers for an average of Rs 1,500 a quintal. They sold at an average of Rs 4,500 a quintal, the investigation based on interviews with farmers, middlemen, representatives of the Agriculture Produce Market Committee (APMC) and government, shows.     Almost all officials confirmed the findings.Many traders privately concurred with the numbers but publicly denied hoarding. From August 12 retail onion prices have ranged from Rs 55 a kg in Mumbai, Rs 70 in Pune to Rs 80 a kg in Delhi.     On August 12, when the Lasalgaon APMC opened, the average wholesale onion price zoomed to Rs 4,300 per quintal. The next day it soared to Rs 4,500 a quintal. The previous high was Rs 3,200 per quintal in 1998.With a capacity to store 12.5 lakh tonnes, Lasalgaon farmers and traders began hoarding the crop harvested in April and May.     Onion usually has a sevenmonth shelf life. “Between July 6 and August 15, APMCs were closed on 19 days. This choked supply. From August 9, when demand peaked, traders made a killing,” an APMC Lasalgaon official said. Monsoon added to the scarcity in a small way. Onion traders denied any wrongdoing. THE BIG PICTURE Onion production is around 16 million tonnes a year Country needs 12 million tonnes a year Annual export around 1.8 million tonnes 10% of production (16 lakh tonnes) is lost Total exporters are 400 with 25 to 30 active exporters There are 500 traders in Nashik district 3.33 lakh quintal on an average is auctioned in wholesale markets in the country every day The country’s onion market is estimated at Rs 10,000 crore Turnover of Lasalgaon wholesale market is around Rs 500 crore (65 lakh quintals), 5% of the total turnover
States ignored Nafed’s June offer to book onion stocks TIMES NEWS NETWORK New Delhi: Two months before onion prices touched Rs 70-80 a kg, states were warned of an impending spike in rates and offered the option of booking stocks in advance at a modest Rs 15.50 a kg, the market rate at the onion hub of Nashik.     Not a single state responded and the National Agricultural Cooperative Marketing Federation’s (Nafed) offer in June to procure and store onions at its cold storage complex at Nashik to be accessed during the lean season went a begging.     Nafed sought an advance payment for storage and transport, but even after taking into account the additional expense, the price of onion would have been considerable below its current retail rates. In fact, the states could have recovered costs even while cooling the retail rates.     In the case of the Delhi government, a senior official conveyed the offer to stock onions — an option that could have cushioned the consumer against the price shock while earning the Sheila Diskhit government political capital during the election year.     Nafed managing director Sanjeev Chopra’s June 21 communication had drawn attention to a consumer affairs department alert about a “…likely spike in price of onion in the coming months.” Traders held back, sold at a premium     Between August 12 and 15, traders flooded markets across the country with 5 lakh quintals of hoarded onions, raking in Rs 150 crore. When they mopped up the onion crop between June and July, they bought it for an average of Rs 1,500; when they released their stocks, it sold for an average of Rs 4,500 per quintal, an investigation shows. P 6 
COSTLY ONIONS? TRY SOME ONION-FREE COOKING Can’t afford onions at the moment? Foodies tell you how you can whip up delicious dishes sans the kitchen favourite Ismat Tahseen     One of the most important vegetables in any kitchen, onions are currently generating more tears than ever before, with their prices touching almost ‘100 a kilo a while back in Mumbai. With this staple turning precious, looks like it’s time we learn to cook without them. But, is it that easy? “Yes, it is,” insists foodie Sunayan Shahani, “With onion prices hitting the rooftops, I am really envious of my Jain friends. Taking cue from their recipes, you can always prepare dishes like poha and pav bhaji – which one may not be able to imagine without onions – and make them delicious even without them.” INDIAN FOOD WITHOUT ONIONS Do you like to begin your day with poha? You can do so without one of its main ingredients. Says Sunayan, “With poha, you can simply use peanuts, curry leaves, turmeric and chillies to spice it up, adding a dash of lime juice for that extra zing. Trust me, you won’t miss onions. Asafoetida or hing is a great substitute to onions as well. Use it in your pav bhaji or other gravy recipes for the same flavour.” SOUTH INDIAN DISHES SHOW THE WAY City-based chef Sudhir Pai has an interesting solution — adapt South Indian dishes to North Indian flavours. “In South Indian Brahmin communities, Kerala or even Bangalore, the dry veg component is always the vegetable itself and a tadka. And in wet preparations, coconut is used. A North Indian can adopt this cooking by using his or her traditional masala with this cooking style. You can have avial, tendli or parwal sans onions or the Mangalorean fish gassi or kori roti (chicken curry made with roasted spices). It’s also very beneficial to cook without onions as lesser oil would obviously be used.” Of course, Mughlai cooking might not be as easy to do without this ingredient. “If you have to make a Mughlai gravy, use khuskhus (poppy seeds), chaar magaz (pumpkin seeds) or cashewnuts ground in water. This might not be a cheap option, though,” he says. MAKE ALU POSTO Boil one tablespoon of mustard oil. Add a teaspoon of panch phoron Bengali five spices and two whole green chillies. Add three parboiled potatoes cut into small cubes. Stir. Then, add the paste of 50 g of ground posto (poppy seeds) with water to the mix and stir. Add salt per taste and a quarter teaspoon of turmeric for colour. The latter is optional. Add half a tea cup of water and boil. Reduce the flame and let the mix simmer till the water dries up. QUICK TIPS FOR CURRY: Increase ratio of tomatoes. Use ground coconut. When making lamb or chicken curry, add potatoes which make the gravy thicker, allowing less use of onions.
Round Idlis, Square Meals Your daily bread and butter might be shrinking – but don’t despair!     A new study finds that a breakfast comprising three idlis, a bowl of sambhar and a cup of coffee is the most nutritious of morning meals. Foodies can now truly rise and shine, boosted by the thought of consuming fluffy idlis at first light. Similarly, the news brings good cheer to those watching their weighing machines since idlis are light on waistlines too. And here’s the sauciest of silver linings – sidestepping pricey onions, this breakfast is feather-light on your wallet as well, a huge plus-point considering how the tanking economy might make us kiss spicy omelettes, sweet waffles and darling clementines a wistful goodbye.     But there’s no reason to despair over your daily bread as the study suggests you’re safe with an idli in your hand. The desi delicacy remains untouched by annoying nouvelle gastronomy nataks – accompanied by chutney bombs or foie gras foam – which chefs who think they’re scientists keep conjuring up. Such simplicity has ensured that an idli remains affordable to all, true comfort food we can clutch in discomforting times.     Little wonder that Tamil Nadu chief minister Jayalalithaa, sensing the power of a powder-puff idli, has opened low-cost Amma Unavagam joints dispersing sambhar trails across the state. For those beyond Jaya’s largesse, the challenge is finding three idlis, sambhar and a coffee at the government’s pretty notion of poverty line prices, which, given pressurecooking food costs, many of us middle-class sorts are looking closely at. But there’s a possible sweet treat here – Raj Babbar could lead us to the cheapest ever idli stall. It’s probably next to the eatery where he gets those 12-rupee rice plates.
Onion crisis heightened by reluctant importers Vishwa Mohan | TNN New Delhi: Private traders’ reluctance to import onion has spelt trouble for the government grappling with soaring price of the staple kitchen item. Cooperative major Nafed came out with a fresh tender on Monday since its earlier one on August 21 had failed to attract traders to import onion from Pakistan, Iran, China or Egypt.     Only three private international traders had shown interest till the deadline of the first import tender expired on August 27. And, two importers wanted to deliver the vegetable at Panvel in Mumbai instead of Nafed’s warehouse at Lawrence Road here as specified in the tender, making them ineligible to import from any of the four shortlisted countries.     Since the Federation had to select at least three importers who can fulfill both cost and delivery norms, it is now forced to float another tender, where the last date of submission of application has been fixed on September 6. Nafed is hopeful that the extended deadline may help it get eligible importers who will deliver onion in Delhi from where the vegetable can be distributed to other centres.     If the government manages to find importers as per the fresh tender, the consignment will take a minimum seven-10 days to reach the Lawrence Road warehouse.     Supplies from import coupled with relatively easy flow of the produce from the domestic wholesale markets — mainly Maharashtra and Karnataka — are expected to bring down the retail price of onion by end-September and early-October.     The timing holds the key since states like Delhi, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh and Chhattisgarh go to assembly polls in November.
EXCEPTION HERE
Lasalgaon onion price at all-time high Nashik: The average onion wholesale price at the country’s largest market, the Lasalgaon Agriculture Produce Market Committee, touched an all-time high of Rs 4,800 a quintal on Friday, breaking the previous high of Rs 4,500 on August 13.The minimum and maximum prices were recorded at Rs 2,500 and Rs 5,016 a quintal as around 6,500 quintals of onions were auctioned. Market sources said the prices have increased due to a sharp decline in supply.Moreover, the arrival of fresh kharif crop in the market is still 20 days away. The fluctuation in the prices is expected to continue for the next couple of weeks. TNN
Inflation at 6-mth high on onions TIMES NEWS NETWORK New Delhi: The rate of inflation accelerated to a sixmonth high in August on the back of spiralling onion prices, posing yet another challenge for RBI ahead of the monetary policy review as it struggles to tame volatility in the foreign exchange market.     Data released on Monday showed the wholesale price index (WPI) rose an annual 6.1% in August, higher than previous month’s 5.79%. The inflation rate in August 2012 stood at 8.01%. Food inflation, which has remained as a pressure point for the past three years, rose sharply during August to a threeyear high of 18.18% due to a spurt in prices of onions. Onion prices rose 245% year-on-year in August. Vegetables prices soared 77.18% year-on-year, while cereal prices shot up an annual 14.35% in August. Egg, meat and fish prices remained stubborn, rising an annual 18.86% during the month. The government also revised upwards the data for June to 5.16% from the previously reported 4.86%. High food prices have remained a policy challenge for the embattled government for the past three years. So far, there has been no clear road map to tackle stubborn food prices.     Economists said WPI accelerated in August against expectations for a stabilization. They said they expect RBI to hold rates when it reviews policy later this week given the risks which still exist due to the volatility in rupee. The central bank will also watch the US Fed meeting on September 18 which will have an influence on its stance in the weeks ahead. The sharp slide of the rupee against the dollar in the past few weeks also had an impact in the upward push by making imports costlier.     “Inflation is accelerating and this may continue in the coming months as the weaker rupee pushes up the price of imported goods. WPI inflation may hold in the 6% to 7% range for the remainder of the year,” Glenn Levine, senior economist at Moody’s Analytics said in a note.
Wholesale onion price at all-time high Nashik: The average wholesale price of onions at the country’s largest market at the Lasalgaon Agriculture Produce Market Committee (APMC) in Nashik touched a new all-time high of Rs 5,300 per quintal on Monday. This pushed the retail rate to Rs 70 per kg against Rs 55 last week. The prices have skyrocketed, breaking the previous record of Rs 4,800 a quintal last Friday, largely due to the decline in supply as farmers have not been able to bring the stored onions. The minimum and maximum prices at APMC were recorded at Rs 3,000 and Rs 5,300 a quintal. Around 5,000 quintals of onions were auctioned in Lasalgaon on Monday. Changdeo Holkar, director of National Agriculture Co-operative Marketing Federation of India, said, “There is limited stock in the country. Rains have also stopped the arrival of fresh crop from Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh.’’ TNN
Onion price brings more tears, touches 75 per kg TIMES NEWS NETWORK Lucknow:The sudden hike in retail prices of onion has left the city in tears. The prices have shot up from Rs 50 to Rs 75 per kg in the past three days. Even in the wholesale market, onion was sold at Rs 68 per kg on Monday. And, wholesale traders say prices may continue to soar during the festive and wedding season.     Vegetables vendors attribute the sudden hike to reduced supply of from Maharashtra, the major producer of onions in the country. “Heavy rainfall caused the reduction of stock in the onion belt of Maharashtra. Low production but high transportation and labour costs have shot up onion prices,” said Pervez Alam, president of Lucknow Phaal Sabji Vyapar Mandal. The onion prices have been rising for past one month. In the second week of August, onion prices had risen from Rs 35 to Rs 60 per kg in the retail markets.     The wholesale traders say onion prices will rise further in the coming months due to low production. “The wholesale traders are left with the last stock of onions and hence, the price will continue to soar. The coming festive and wedding season will also fuel the onion price. As the new stock of onion will hit the city markets in December, consumers will not get respite for at least two months,” said Satish Sonkar, president of Fruits and Vegetables Growers and Sellers Association.     The eye-watering onion price has hit household budget. Homemaker Raghini Srivastava, who has a joint-family, rued, “We have stopped eating onions completely since last month…will this ever end? Or we would be able to eat onions only on special occasions.”     Kiran Mishra, a housewife, said, “Onions are staple ingredients in Indian dishes. I do not know what to cook without them. When I make food without onions, my children find it tasteless.” Anuj Arora, a private executive, said, “Everything has become very expensive and it’s tough for middle class to stick to their family budget. As onions are staple diet of Indians, government should interfere and do something to control their prices.”
Summers out of Fed race, rises to 62.85 TIMES NEWS NETWORK Mumbai: The rupee closed at 62.85 against the dollar on Monday — up 65 paise from its previous close of 63.50 — on hopes of continued easy monetary policy in the US after the hawkish Lawrence Summers dropped out of the race to head the US Federal Reserve. However, higher inflation numbers is keeping markets on edge.     The rupee opened stronger at 63.10, and in intraday trade firmed up to as high as 62.50. It regained the 62 mark exactly a month after it crossed it on its way down on August 16. The local currency had subsequently tumbled to a historic low of close to 69 against the dollar. Onions push up inflation to 6.1%     Inflation accelerated to a six month high of 6.1% in August on the back of a 245% annual spiral in onion prices. Food inflation also rose sharply during the month to a three-year high of 18.18%. Vegetables prices soared 77.18% year-on-year. P 13 ‘India more susceptible to external factors’ Mumbai: Lawrence Summers, a former US treasury secretary, was seen by world markets as the most hawkish contender for the top job at the US Fed. Markets expect that had Summers got the job, the Fed would have aggressively reduced its bond buyback which is currently at around $85 billion a month.     Now, Janet Yellen, vicechairperson of the board of governors of the Fed is seen as a likely candidate to replace Ben Bernanke when his term ends on January 31, 2014.     Yellen, who was part of the team that set up the quantitative easing plan, is seen to be more in favour of creating jobs than curbing inflation. Summers’ withdrawal led to a weakening of the dollar against all currencies. Dealers, however, warn that the reprieve could be temporary as other members of the Fed open markets committee are now far more hawkish than in the past. “The Indian economy is far more susceptible to external factors because of the domestic situation” said Ramraj Pai, president, Crisil ratings.     He pointed out that if India did not have such a large current account deficit, it would not be so adversely impacted by outflows of $10 billion to $15 billion.     The other domestic factor that is worrying the Indian markets is inflation. A sharp rise in prices has left the markets worried that new RBI governor Raghuram Rajan would not have the flexibility to ease interest rates in a hurry.
The Onion Curse Bad policies not only push up food prices, they also affect political fortunes     The uptick of wholesale prices to a six month high of 6.1% in August, largely fuelled by a 244.6% increase in onion prices, is bad news for the economy. Not only does it set back hopes of a rate cut to boost investments in the monetary policy review by the RBI at the end of the week, it also highlights the government’s continuing inability to manage the food economy and rein in volatility of food prices.     Blaming bad weather doesn’t cut much ice. The rising prices of essential food items like rice despite good monsoons are mainly due to the large stocks accumulated to meet the needs of the food security Act. The continuous increase in minimum support prices for rice and wheat by the government has also proved counterproductive as it has discouraged a shift in cropping patterns to vegetables or the diversification of production to livestock, fish and poultry. Consequently, prices of vegetables and high protein foods like milk, eggs, fish and meat have shot up, making them unaffordable to the poor. Inadequate storage facilities and the failure to modernise the food supply chain have also added to the problem.     Curbing volatility in food prices and improving supply would require strong measures by both state and Union governments. States have to reform the Agriculture Produce Marketing Committee Act to allow for contract farming, direct marketing and setting up markets in the private sector. Adequate credit has to be ensured for setting up cold storage chains. The bias against large organised retailers, including foreign chains, has to be dropped. Given their global supply chains, they would have cooled domestic prices by realigning their procurement orders. The government should also shift to direct cash transfers from food subsidies, thus reducing the need to build huge stocks.     It is pertinent that onion prices have remained high for almost a year with no signs of an end to the supply shortage. A kitchen staple across the country, the price of the bulb is not only linked to the health of the economy but also to political fortunes. It will be recalled that soaring onion prices had cost the BJP government in Delhi in the 1998 elections. With assembly polls only a few months away, the onion could come back again to sting political ambitions.
Centre blames hoarders for soaring onion prices Price Shoots Up To 70-75 In Lucknow Dipak Kumar Dash TNN New Delhi: Traders and speculators might be creating an “artificial price increase” for onions in Delhi, the Centre has suggested, and asked the city government to examine whether a seasonal shortage in supplies is being exploited.     “Governments of Delhi and Chandigarh were addressed to look into the possibility of traders and speculators creating an artificial price increase to take advantage of the seasonal shortage,” a consumer affairs department status report on onions said.     Adding to the official alarm is a 50% dip in arrivals at most major mandis in the past 10 days. After plateauing briefly in August, prices have again hit the roof in Delhi, Mumbai, Lucknow, Nagpur, Jaipur and Guwahati. The retail price in Lucknow, after remaining static at Rs 60 per kg, has suddenly jumped to Rs 70-75 per kg.     The report is worrying news for the Delhi government which faces assembly polls in November. High onion prices were seen as a prime reason for its rival BJP’s ouster from power in 1998.     The Centre’s communication to the Delhi administration bolsters the suspicion that hoarding and manipulation of the supply chain are an important reason for retail rates of onions shooting to Rs 70-80 a kg in the capital. It also highlights the inability of governments to check hoarding and ensure steady arrival of vegetables. ‘Maha traders slowing supply to up prices’ New Delhi: The Centre has confirmed concerns (reported by TOI on August 17) that traders in Maharashtra’s onion hub of Nashik are also deliberately releasing stocks — only 1.5 lakh tonnes less than last year — at a slow pace to manipulate prices.     “Maharashtra was requested to ensure a steady supply from stocks into the market and intimate if there is any blockage in the supply chain that causes prices to rise,” a consumer affairs department status note on onions said.Food and consumer affairs minister K V Thomas on Tuesday said the Centre had asked onion producing states like Maharashtra to crack down on hoarders. The consumer affairs ministry has also asked all other states to ensure availability of the political sensitive commodity.     For the full report, log on to www.timesofindia-.com
E D I T PAG E M A I L B OX Penalty, not penance This is with reference to the article ‘Death Penalty’s Long Life’ (September 18) by Chandan Nandy. The arguments against death penalty are more idealistic than realistic and equitable. If the state has no right to take away the life of the guilty citizen, the citizen too has no right to kill another. If he does so wilfully and for no good reason, is it realistic that the state should be liberal to him in the hope that he would reform? There is little possibility of this happening particularly when the crime is brutal and remorseless. Besides, it is not equitable that an offender leads a normal life while the relatives of the killed soul grieve for the rest of their lives.     Y G Chouksey, PUNE Onion wars This is with reference to the editorial ‘The Onion Curse’ (September 18). The failure of the government to rein in onion prices has left many household budgets in disarray. Many communities avoid using onion and now it is for the others to push out onion out of the kitchen. This will have the desired effect and bring down onion prices to some extent. But the government has failed us all badly by hesitating to take any decisive action against the people who are responsible for hoarding onion stocks and raising prices. The government seems oblivious to the sufferings of the general public, facing the brunt of the rising food prices. Today, they are shedding tears in silence. However, the coming elections will ensure that soon it would be the government’s turn to shed tears in abundance Ashok Goswami, MUMBAI
90% onion stocks over, hoarders could look to make a killing Dipak Kumar Dash TNN New Delhi: Onion hoarders and unscrupulous traders could be looking to make a killing over the next 15-20 days as 85-90% of the country’s onion stock is over and only 3-4 lakh tonnes remain available for consumption.     Since traders are aware of the depleting stock, and know that arrival of the kharif crop from October will ease supplies and depress prices, they seem to be trying to extract maximum profit by exploiting the current crisis.     The government on Wednesday indicated that the minimum export price (MEP) would be raised to $900 per tonne in the next couple of days from $650 to practically halt exports.     This may have only a limited impact, acting more as a market signal, as exports fell drastically this month to just 9,000 tonnes against 1.33 lakh tonnes during the corresponding period last year. “Even at a price of $650, export is unsustainable. The fresh announcement will have little impact. The government is perhaps trying to send a message to people of how serious it is to deal with the crisis,” an official said.     Onion prices remained high on Wednesday even as government claimed the rates would fall in the next fortnight and even officials of National Horticulture Research and Development Foundation (NHRDF) said they expected higher availability in southern markets would bring down the price substantially in the next 10-15 days.     For the full report, log on to www.timesofindia.com 
Sharad Pawar’s speculation leads to onion price hike again NCP Controls APMC In Navi Mumbai Bella Jaisinghani TNN Mumbai: Retail onion prices soared on Tuesday in Mumbai markets to another high of Rs 65-70 per kg on the back of government inaction — and speculation. Within hours of Union agriculture minister Sharad Pawar’s comment that onion prices would remain high until October, wholesale rates rose from Rs 47 per kg to Rs 58 on Monday. The new crop was expected to normalize prices in the first week of September.     Sources at the Agricultural Produce Market Committee (APMC), Vashi, said the Union agriculture ministry was sympathetic to the farmers’ cause so it favoured good returns for them during the onion harvest.     Ashok Walunj, who heads the onion-potato market at APMC, said, “If farmers earn Rs 50 per kg, the consumer will have to pay Rs 60.” He admitted that “90% of APMC is controlled by the NCP” but will “not officially comment on whether speculation by the minister is a right move to make”. Walunj agreed wholesale traders in the Lasalgaon onion market as well as Vashi take cue from Pawar’s statements. Walunj did not fail to notice how onion prices rose from Rs 50 to Rs 70 within a day of the minister’s projection but said a 20-25% dip was in the offing from Monday.     TOI tried to contact Pawar for his comments without success. The minister has caused similar anxiety at least thrice before. Each time, the escalation has been irreversible. Pawar said on December 2, 2009 that the country was facing a 70 lakh tonne shortage of sugar that would cause prices to rise, and they did. Until then, sugar sold for Rs 18 per kg but rose to Rs 32 steadily. It is now available for Rs 45.     On September 24, 2009, he predicted a shortfall in rice production, after which retail rates rose.     He said a milk shortage would drive up prices on January 20, 2010. Rates, stable for years, have been since revised every few months. The central and state agriculture ministries denied wholesalers are hoarding onions or that a crackdown was necessary.
J U G U L A R V E I N Perfect PM The current occupant of the gaddi will long be remembered for a unique quality Jug Suraiya Some years ago an American entrepreneur invented the perfect pet for people who were too busy to keep regular pets which need a lot of looking after: he invented the pet rock. Unlike other pets, your pet rock did not need to be taken for walks, or be given food, or get taken to the vet. Your pet rock just sat there, totally immobile and completely silent.     India went one better than inventing a pet that was totally immobile and 100% silent: it invented a PM who was totally immobile and 100% silent. Taking care of India’s democracy – the largest and arguably the most exuberant in the world – is rather like having to take care of a very lovable and very large pet dog. Having such a pet is a very rewarding experience – because you love your pet and you know that your pet loves you equally in reciprocal measure – but it can also be quite exhausting at times.     The pet called democracy has to be taken out on regular exercises called elections. It has to be fed a steady diet of debate, in return for which it will perform tricks like framing legislation and providing good governance. Yes, there’s little doubt about it: democracy – particularly the boisterous variety that is Indian democracy – can be a very demanding and highmaintenance pet to look after. All that constant vigilance and looking after that it requires can prove extremely tiring, particularly after a hard day’s work in Parliament.     So with its infinite genius for jugaad, India invented a PM who – like the American entrepreneur’s pet rock – just sat there and said and did absolutely nothing as a relaxing antidote to the hurly-burly and the hal-chal, the gol-mal and the hangama of our overly-energetic and all too vibrant democracy. Looking after a frisky, unpredictable democracy getting you all hot and bothered and tense and stressed out? Take a chill pill. Take a tip from a PM who, like the pet rock, has mastered the art of total inaction.     There was corruption. There were scams. There was Adarshgate, Spectrumgate, Coalgate and Vadragate. There were so many ‘gates’ that India began to look like a sports stadium with its multiple entrances and exits. Or like a circus arena which has to have many openings for all the clowns and jokers and performing animals to go in and out from. The PM sat and watched the circus and, pet rock-like, remained unmoved. The economy did a nosedive; the rupee went into free fall, without benefit of parachute or safety net. The PM remained unmoved. Investors packed up their portfolios and left the country in droves. The PM remained unmoved. The price of onions went up to the price of gold, and no one knew what the price of gold was because it had so many zeroes that by the time you’d counted them all several more had been added to the total. The PM remained unmoved. Nobody seemed to know whether the country was coming or going, and if it was going, where it was going, and why. The PM remained unmoved.     That’s why, like the pet rock, the PM will go down in the history books as the only PM truly to deserve the title of PM: Perpetually Motionless.     jug.suraiya@timesgroup.com     http://blogs.timesofindia.indiatimes.com/jugglebandhi/ 
States ignore onion advisory Fail To Crack Down On Hoarders; Pawar Promises Lower Prices TIMES NEWS NETWORK New Delhi: There seems to be little impact on the Centre’s advisory to states to crack down on onion hoarders, and ease the spiraling kitchen staple’s prices.     Only this week onion prices increased by Rs 5-20 per kg in cities like Delhi, Agra, Mumbai, Bangalore, Nagpur, Patna and Ahmedabad. Tomato prices, too, have gone up by up to Rs 10 in Bangalore, Delhi, Lucknow and Jodhpur. Meanwhile, in a bid to ease the spiraling prices, the Centre on Thursday notified revised minimum export price (MEP) for onion at $900 per tonne to stop export of the commodity.     Agriculture minister Sharad Pawar also said on Thursday that onion prices would come down in the next two to three weeks in view of the arrival of fresh produce from Maharashtra and onion growing other states.     He said the supplies are likely to improve as small quantities of imported onions have arrived, and outward shipments have slowed after a minimum export price was re-imposed.     “After talking to farmers and traders, my own assessment is that arrival of new kharif crop will increase substantially in next two-three weeks and prices will come down,” Pawar told a news agency. He added that farmers were holding back stock in Maharashtra, a state that has better storage capacity, in anticipation of better prices. State governments have been directed to take action against hoarders, he added.     Later in the day, food and consumer affairs minister K V Thomas ruled out declaring onion as an essential commodity. In 2004, onion was deleted from the list covered under the Essential Commodities Act following satisfactory production and stable price trend.     The Act was enacted to ensure easy availability of essential commodities to consumers and to protect them from exploitation by unscrupulous traders.
Food prices rose 157% between 2004 and 2013 Veggie Prices Up 350% In That Period Subodh Varma     If you were to ask any random aam aadmi anywhere in India what is the single biggest failing of the UPA, the answer would be — price rise. This is so because the most important items of family spending — food items — have relentlessly risen for the past several years despite repeated promises to bring them down by the economic mandarins and policy wonks that run the country’s economy. Poorer families have had to stop eating various foods in order to save crumbling family budgets.     Between 2004 and 2013, food prices in general rose by 157%. But when you get into the nuts and bolts the real pain becomes starkly clear.     India is the second largest producer of vegetables in the world. Yet, chronic supply shortages coupled with serial hoarding has led vegetable prices to shoot up by a deadly 350% in that period.     Onion prices have increased by an incredible 521% since 2004. And it’s not a smooth, even rise. There were times when onion prices doubled, even tripled within weeks and then subsided after a few weeks of rampage. This happened in the winter of 2010-11. And it is happening again now with onion prices touching Rs 70-80 levels in most parts of the country.     This has also happened with other key staples, like potatoes. In the second half of 2009 potato prices zoomed up by almost 100% and it was only in January 2010 that the levels came down. Other vegetables have followed their own mad ways — brinjal, for instance, is 311% costlier now than in 2004, and prices of the lowly cabbage have risen by a jaw dropping 714%. Various vegetable prices are in fact at all time highs.     The hike in vegetable prices hit poorer families especially hard because earlier, starting 2006, another staple of families had been knocked out of thalis. This was pulses, the single biggest source of protein in largely vegetarian India. Their prices rose steadily 2005 onwards and by 2010 they had more than doubled. Then again they increased in 2012 and reached an all time high in September last year. There has been a slight decline since then but even then the prices are 123% higher than 2004.     What about other key food items? Milk prices have increased by 119%. Egg prices have gone up by 124%. Spices and condiments have increased by 119%. Sugar has increased by 106%. Even salt, an essential of most cooked food has increased by 85% in the past decade.     Prices of the two staple cereals of India, rice and wheat, have increased by 137% and 117%, respectively. Remember, India has seen record harvests for a series of years and except for 2004 and 2009, monsoons have been generally good.
NEWS DIGEST Mum gang-rape attackers charged In less than a month after the brutal gang rape of a woman photo-journalist in an abandoned mill, Mumbai Police on Thursday filed the formal set of charges against all five suspects. P 6 AIIMS student commits suicide A 23-year-old final year MBBS student at AIIMS committed suicide by hanging herself from the ceiling fan of her hostel room on Thursday. In her suicide note, Supriya Meena said she was depressed because of illness. P 9 Iran won’t ever seek N-weapons Iran will never seek WMDs, including nuclear weapons, newly elected President Hassan Rowhani has vowed, as he reached out to the US. He also praised President Obama’s “positive” approach towards Iran. P 11 Woman, two kids burned in Faizabad A pregnant woman along with her two children was allegedly burned alive in Faizabad on Wednesday night. The incident took place under Purakalandar police station. The victims, Urmila (32) and her two infant children — aged one and three — were rushed to a hospital but they died on the way. Fast-track courts slow down justice Fast track courts were set up in the capital to ensure that women got speedy justice in sexual assault cases. Ironically, statistics reveal that the disposal rate of rape cases has actually come down after these court started functioning in January this year. P 7 
Rajan resists govt pressure on rates Like His Predecessor Subbarao, Inflation Remains Governor’s Key Worry On Sept 4, when he took charge at RBI, Raghuram Rajan said, “Some of the actions I take will not be popular. The governorship of the central bank is not meant to win one votes or Facebook ‘likes’. But I hope to do the right thing, no matter what the criticism…” On Friday, he took the surprising, and unpopular, decision to hike the key policy rate, sending the rupee and the sensex skidding Surojit Gupta TNN New Delhi: A large chunk of RBI’s monetary policy statement on Friday sounded familiar. For now, RBI governor Raghruram Rajan has decided to keep inflation as the centrepiece of his policy — the theme his predecessor had adopted despite difference in points of view with the finance ministry over interest rates.     Rajan used his maiden policy review to caution about the inflationary pressures present in the economy. While a large section of the financial market and economists had expected Rajan to hold rates, the former IMF chief economist demonstrated that he is ready to undertake unpopular steps to place the economy on a firm footing. His predecessor Duvvuri Subbarao had articulated the problem of stubborn inflation in several of his policy statements. He had also resisted strong pressure from North Block to reduce rates, highlighting price pressure threats. On Friday, Rajan might have disappointed his former colleagues in North Block — by raising the repo rate.     Finance minister P Chidambaram has been canvassing for enlarging the central bank’s mandate. “The mandate of price stability must be seen as part of the larger mandate and the larger mandate is growth and employment,” he had said in Rajya Sabha last month. But Rajan flagged the pressing problem of inflation, stating that the wholesale price inflation would be higher than the initial projection. “However, the current assessment is that in the absence of an appropriate policy response, WPI inflation will be higher than initially projected over the rest of the year,” the RBI policy statement said.     Inflation has remained a stubborn problem for the government and RBI. Food prices have spiralled and onion prices have become unaffordable for a large section of society. Latest data shows food prices rose 18% year-on-year, while retail inflation has hovered around double digits for the past one year.     An occasional dip in the inflation numbers have often prompted policymakers to predict that the price pressure would ease as supplies rise. But that has not happened. Even now policymakers are expecting that a bumper harvest on the back of a robust monsoon will help ease food price pressures. But Rajan is willing to wait for that evidence to emerge without taking any risks. “Although better prospects of a robust kharif harvest will lead to some moderation in CPI inflation, there is no room for complacency,” the policy statement said. And, he made his intention clear on inflation. “You always have to balance the state of the economy with your fight against inflation. What I would like to see is that we achieve, certainly, the RBI’s target of trying to bring WPI inflation below 5%. We want to fight against inflation and we’ll bring inflation down.”
ONE-ON-ONE ‘Economy has bottomed out and will now move up’ Surojit Gupta & Mahendra Singh TNN     Planning Commission deputy chairman Montek Singh Ahluwalia is optimistic about growth bouncing back on the back of good monsoon. In an interview to TOI, Ahlulwalia says enforcing expenditure discipline will help tame the fiscal deficit. Excerpts: What is your assessment of the economic situation? I think the economy has bottomed out and will now move up, though one has to be cautious on the pace of the recovery. The first quarter GDP numbers were disappointing but there are reasons to be optimistic about the rest of the year. First, the good monsoon will translate into a strong agricultural performance, which will contribute directly to GDP, and will also generate rural demand, which will help non-agricultural GDP. Second, performance in the core sectors — cement, steel, coal, power — has improved from July, though overall industrial production growth remains low. Third, exports have improved as effects of the rupee depreciation have passed through. The depreciation will also help domestic industry compete more effectively against imports. Finally, the efforts made by the government over the past several months to get large projects moving has helped to remove some key impediments. I hope it will lead to a pick-up in investment in the second half of the year. IMF has projected that growth will be below 4%... The IMF has scaled down growth everywhere and especially in emerging markets. For India, they have projected GDP growth at factor cost — which is the measure we use — at 4.3% in 2013. However this projection is for the calendar year 2013, so it includes the period January-April of the current calendar year when growth was low and it does not include the first quarter of 2014, when we expect acceleration to come into play. The IMF forecast is based largely on recent performance. They are not factoring in the possibility that the positive features I have listed may have a significant effect in the next six months. What are your views on the price situation? This is obviously a matter of concern because it impacts the lower income groups. High food inflation is because of high inflation in cereals, and a short-term spike in onion prices. The government is working on ways to offload substantial volumes of stocks of foodgrains, which I think will soften cereal prices. Onion prices have already been coming down, as the new crop arrives. What is your assessment of the fiscal situation? It is true that the fiscal deficit has been running on the high side in the first half. This is because revenues have been lower than projected, because of lower growth but the situation could improve if the economy recovers in the second half of the year. The finance minister has also announced cuts in non-plan expenditure. There is also a likelihood of underspending on the plan front because of the state elections in several states occurring at a time when work is normally at full swing. Are you anticipating a major cut in plan expenditure? I hope there won’t be a formal cut on plan expenditure, but plan expenditure is often lower than projected in the Budget because of delays in administrative approvals and also in implementation at the state level. Normally, such underspending is offset by supplementary demands presented to Parliament in the course of the year. If we refrain from seeking supplementaries, our total expenditure will automatically be contained. I wouldn’t call this a cut. It is simply enforcement of expenditure discipline. This is what happened last year. Do you think US Fed tapering might disrupt markets? It is difficult to say what the Fed will do and when it will act. However, most people think the taper will now begin only in 2014, by when our position in terms of the current account deficit will look much better. The taper will have some impact, but as long as it is gradual, it may be manageable. The rupee is also at a much more realistic level, reducing the possibility of a speculative attack.
Onion leads green surge in Lucknow, yet again Priyangi Agarwal TNN Lucknow: With the prices of vegetables, especially potato and onion, on an upward spiral again, the consumers are worst hit. In the past one week, the cost of vegetables has gone up by 40% in local mandis.     Last week onion was available for nearly Rs 45 per kg but now again it has touched 65 per kg in local markets. However, in wholesale, at present onion is priced at Rs 50 per kg. Similarly, the price of potato has gone up from Rs 15 to 25 per kg and Rs 8 to 13 per kg in retail and wholesale respectively.     In the same way, at present, the retail price of tomato is around Rs 45 per kg. However, a week earlier, tomatoes were priced at Rs 30 per kg. The same tomatoes are available for Rs 30 per kg in wholesale markets. Similar is the case with garlic. The price of garlic in local mandis is Rs 60 per kg and wholesale Rs 32-35 per kg, whereas a week earlier, it was available for Rs 40 per kg.     Satish Sonkar, president of Uttar Pradesh Fruits and Vegetables Sellers and Growers Association, said, “The rains caused the reduction of stock of vegetables grown in the city. Hence, most of the vegetables have been imported from other states. The increased cost of warehousing and transportation also fuelled the price of vegetables.”     Sonkar added that a few days back, the price of onion had fallen because its consumption decreased during Navratra. The consumers will get respite in the first week of November when the new stock on onion will hit the market.     The skyrocketing prices of vegetables have come as yet another blow for the people already reeling under high inflation rate. A housewife, Tanu Joshi, said, “It has been a month since we have used onion. If the prices of other vegetables will continue to rise, what we will eat then?"     Seconding her opinion, Ankit Pandey, a private executive who has subscribed to tiffin service said, “Due to soaring vegetables prices, I often get to eat same vegetable daily. The lady who provides me tiffin complains that she is unable to meet the cost and repeats the cheapest vegetables.”
Short supply fuels onion price surge Dipak Kumar Dash & Neha Lalchandani TNN New Delhi: Inadequate supplies are fuelling a fresh surge in onion prices. “We have got inputs that traders have bought standing crops from farmers. So, it’s the traders who are deciding when to release the supply,” said a senior government official who keeps track of vegetable prices.     Wholesale rate of onion climbed by Rs 5 per kg over the weekend to settle at a high of Rs 65 per kg on Monday. Retail prices recorded a corresponding jump, moving up from Rs 80 per kg on Sunday to Rs 90 per kg the next day. Onions were retailing between Rs 70 and Rs 90 in the city. Beginning of July, a kg of onion in Delhi could be bought for Rs 40.     “The supply from Alwar has started coming in. On Monday, 1,200-1,300 bags of onion, weighing about 90 tonnes, arrived at the Azadpur wholesale market. Usually, by this time the supply from Rajasthan is much higher,” said Surendra Sawhney, proprietor, Gujarat Onions Co.     The trend of onion arrivals at major mandis in the past 20 days shows a significant drop in most of the markets except Delhi, Mumbai, Pune and Hyderabad.
Onions touch 90/kg, may hit 100 soon Dipak Kumar Dash & Neha Lalchandani TNN New Delhi:Onion prices soared to the year’s high of Rs 90 per kg in many parts of the capital on Monday, amid indications that the staple many touch Rs 100 before coming down to more normal levels around Diwali.     Market watchers said the quantity of fresh arrivals was not as much as expected and this was likely to further raise prices. Onions were selling between Rs 60 and Rs 80 in other parts of the country, including Mumbai, Kolkata and Varanasi.     Delhi, which gets most of its supply from Alwar (Rajasthan) and Indore (MP), is facing a more severe crisis. P 11 
Govt in panic as onion price hits 100 a kg Cong Tries To Pin Blame On BJP, Hoarders Dipak Kumar Dash & Tushar Pawar TNN New Delhi/Nashik: With onion prices continuing to be on fire in the run-up to crucial polls in the capital, an embattled government scrambled to stem the surge but appeared to lack a coherent plan.     As onion prices, defying the drop in rates in the country’s biggest wholesale market at Lasalgaon in Nashik, continued to spiral and touched the Rs 100 per kg mark in New Delhi, panic in the government was obvious. In Lucknow, it was selling at Rs 90 per kg in retail. Food minister K V Thomas rushed to Maharashtra as the Congress-ruled state accounts for 28% of the onion production and can help tame prices by clamping down on hoarders.     The Congress government in Delhi, which rode the onion anger to power in 1998, shifted blame to BJP-ruled MP. Civil supplies minister Haroon Yusuf said hoarders were keeping supplies from reaching Delhi to sabotage Congress’s prospects in the state polls. Commerce minister Anand Sharma blamed hoarders for the spike in onion prices which political rivals have painted as the UPA government’s failure. ‘Banning onion exports is not a good decision’ New Delhi/Nashik: Beyond a mad scramble, cries of sabotage and transference of blame, the central government on Tuesday did not seem to have any plan to deal with the spiraling onion crisis. Banning exports was considered only to be discarded after it was recognized that with domestic prices ruling high, few would have the incentive to sell abroad. “Banning exports may sound politically right but it will not be a good decision economically,” food minister K V Thomas told TOI.     Commerce minister Anand Sharma blamed hoarders for the spike in onion prices which political rivals have painted as the UPA government’s failure, and worse, insensitivity towards the poor. Onion imports from Egypt, Afghanistan and Pakistan were spoken of was back on the table but going by the experience a couple of months ago when prices started shooting up, it may not prove to be beneficial.     In the summer, imports from Pakistan were held up because of clearance problems at the Wagah border. The crisis appeared to be man-made. On Tuesday, the average wholesale price of the new crop at Lasalgaon was Rs 3,900 a quintal, 37% cheaper than in the summer. Yet, the drop was not reflecting in retail prices. Onion supplies to Delhi increased 10-15%, in the last 24 hours and brought down the price by Rs 100 per quintal at the wholesale level.     But there was no let-up in the price at the colony level, with prices touching Rs 100 akg in many localities. Intriguingly, there was wide variation even within short distances, confirming the fear that hoarders could be at work. “This shows there is hoarding or delayed selling by traders to create artificial crisis,” said a government official.     Thomas said that he planned to meet agriculture minister Sharad Pawar and Maharashtra CM Prithviraj Chavan to discuss how to ease supplies from the state. This may not prove to be an easy task, considering not just the defiance that the hoarders have displayed despite dire warnings of a crackdown by functionaries at all levels. What may prove to be more problematic is that in many cases, farmers are holding on to their stocks expecting better prices.
No More Tears Loosen mandis’ stranglehold over trade to combat inflation in onions     The retail price of onion breached the three-figure mark in New Delhi this week, as if to be in sync with the 100%-plus monthly inflation recorded for this vegetable since June relative to the previous year. At the height of Zimbabwe’s hyperinflation, the government stopped filing inflation statistics. Hopefully, India will avoid such drastic measures and get down to addressing structural bottlenecks which have led to elevated prices of vegetables and fruits over the last few years.     Indian farmers have shown themselves to be rational economic agents, responding to price signals the way people in other sectors do. Cropped area of cotton, vegetables and fruits have recorded the largest gains in the recent past. Why then should the world’s second largest producer of fruits and vegetables see frequent spikes in their price level? Because the journey between the farm and consumer has so many hurdles that even in wake of frenetic urbanisation, less than 40% of farm produce is consumed in urban areas. India’s opaque mandis need to have their stranglehold grip over farm trade loosened. A decade’s experience of trying to gingerly reform the Agricultural Produce Marketing Committee Act has been disappointing. Modern retail’s scale economies can’t make a dent in this area unless fruits and vegetables are exempted from APMC. Competition here is essential and states need to shoulder responsibility.     Also, the market works best when it is complemented by judicious public investment. Over the last decade, governments in India have prioritised agricultural subsidies over public investment. Given how inefficiently subsidies are targeted, this approach isn’t a fruitful one (pun fully intended). It’s time to re-prioritise and use public investment to build infrastructure that widens and deepens links between farmers and markets.
Onion crisis to last 2-3 weeks: Pawar Vishwa Mohan & Dipak Kumar Dash TNN New Delhi: Even as the Centre on Wednesday stepped in to import onion from China and Pakistan in a bid to cool down prices of the staple, Union agriculture minister Sharad Pawar warned that the crisis may continue for another two to three weeks.     “Next two to three weeks will be tough. Ultimately, we have to find a solution. We have to import as early as possible,” Pawar said, putting his faith on the import route to end the crisis.     The central cooperative major Nafed, accordingly, has floated a tender — the third in two months — to import onions from China, Pakistan, Iran and Egypt, and allowed international traders to import the vegetable without prior fumigation so that they can ensure quick supply.     Since fumigation at exporters’ end takes time, the government decided to fumigate the produce once it reaches India. Pawar will hold a meeting with food minister K V Thomas and commerce minister Anand Sharma on Thursday to discuss ways of tackling the situation.     Including China in the list of countries from where onion can be imported, however, intrigued many officials in the ministry of consumer affairs as its status report on the price rise warned against buying onions from that country. The report noted that an earlier consignment from China did not find “acceptance amongst consumers because of (the onions’) poor pungency and taste”.     Even the onion imported by private traders from several countries including China, had not found many takers. The average import price was Rs 49 per kg. The import, in any case, may not bring early relief to consumers as the consignment from abroad would hit the market only around November 10 in Delhi. It will take another two to three days to reach Rajasthan and other states.     Sensing the crisis, government asked chief ministers of all states to invoke the Essential Commodities Act (ECA) against hoarders as it is suspected that the wholesale traders across the country would take advantage of the situation where supply chain was disrupted due to rains, decline in production and poor storage capacity. Sources said that sensing a fall in produce this year, government should have kept 1-2 million tonnes of buffer stock for use in an emergency.     For the full report, log on to www.timesofindia.com 
Govt to blame for high onion prices, says BJP TIMES NEWS NETWORK Lucknow: The Bharatiya Janata Party on Wednesday said skyrocketing of onion prices was a government-induced phenomenon. The way prices have risen proves how the common man has been duped of his vote, said Bharatiya Janata Party national spokesman Prakash Javadekar.     The irony is that Congress vice-president Rahul Gandhi calls Congress a party of poor. “I challenge Rahul to debate on the issue,” said Javadekar. Hitting out at Samajwadi Party and Bahujan Samaj Party, Javadekar said both these parties were equally responsible for the plight of the common man in the country as they had been extending support to the Congress-led UPA-II government at the Centre.     He said the Central government could have fallen in 2010, but the crutches provided by SP and BSP in exchange of relief from CBI in the criminal cases against their leaders had saved the Congress-led government, the BJP spokesman added.     Demanding resignation of Prime Minister Manmohan Singh, Javadekar cited two scams and said Suresh Kalmadi had to go to jail for being the signing authority in the Commonwealth Games scam despite names of several high officials being accused and former telecommunication minister D Raja also was sent behind bars for being the main signing authority in the 2G spectrum case. By this yardstick, since PM Dr Manmohan Singh was the coal minister and allocation of coal block was done with his signature, he should at least step down, Javadekar demanded.
Onion consumption drops 60% in city Priyangi Agarwal TNN Lucknow: The soaring prices have led to drop in onion consumption by 60% in Lucknow in the past five months. It means that today the portion of onion in the plate of a person in the city is less than half compared to what it used to be in May. In the same period, prices have gone up five times in the retail market from Rs 15 per kg to Rs 85 per kg.     According to UP Vegetables and Fruits Growers and Sellers Association, till May, around 240 tonne of onion was being sold daily in the city, which has now come down to nearly 96 tonne, a drop of 144 tonne.     While farmers are getting Rs 15 per kg, the cost of onion by the time it reaches our home rises to Rs 85 kg, which means Rs 70 per kg is being pocketed by middlemen traders.     If one takes the daily demand into account, over Rs 67.20 lakh is pocketed by profiteers. Sheila and Pawar at odds on onion prices New Delhi: Worried over the spiralling cost of onions, chief minister Sheila Dikshit gave an assurance to Delhiites that prices will come down by Rs 3-5 per kg on Thursday even as Union agriculture minister Sharad Pawar warned that the onion crisis may continue for another two to three weeks. P12 Dip in demand has not affected traders     Significantly, while hoarders are making hay, aam aadmi is shedding tears. The sharp decline in demand has not affected the traders at all because they have earned much more due to increase in prices. In comparison, the income of farmers has dropped because of decline in demand and no increase in prices at their end. On the other hand, a commoner is paying more despite restricting consumption. For example, a family of four consuming 10 kg per month used to pay Rs 150 in May. Now, if the same family is using 4 kg per month, it is paying Rs 340. This means even after drop in consumption by 60%, a person is paying more than double.     This explains why Priyanka Varma's family of 13 members has stopped eating onions completely for the past two months. “Onions used to be a staple ingredient in our food but now it is a luxury,” she said.     It has cast a shadow on the festivals too. “On Eid-ul-Azha, we made mostly vegetarian dishes which do not require onion. Prices forced us to cut down even sweet delicacies from four to two,” said Subuhi Arshad, a lecturer. Chandra Bisht, a housewife, said instead of onion she is using cardamom and cumin seeds.     Eating out will be costlier too as restaurants are planning a hike. Christopher Ransom, manager of a famous restaurant in the city, said they are planning to revise the rate card by 10-15%. “We serve pickled onions free to our customers. At times, they ask for an additional bowl and we cannot refuse,” he said.     General manager of a prominent restaurant chain, Ashish Bass, said, “It is tough but we are trying not to pass the burden on consumers. We have multiple outlets, hence we buy onion in bulk so we manage to set off the rising expenses.”     Even tiffin caterers and small eateries are hit badly. “I have replaced onion in salad with cucumber and cabbage. If onion price does not come down this month, we will increase our price,” said Raju, who owns an eatery at Ashok Marg.     Meera who supplies tiffin in offices and to paying guests said, “My customers complain that in the past few months, food has become tasteless. Apart from onion, the price of most vegetables has gone up and I am unable to maintain the quality or quantity.”     Vegetable traders, however, deny hoarding and profiteering. “Low production due to bad weather and rise in transportation cost due to increase in diesel prices have also contributed to high inflation,” said Satish Sonkar, president of UP Fruits and Vegetables sellers and Growers Association.
Onions too costly? Cook with chives Ismat Tahseen     With soaring prices of onions, how about using chives as a replacement? The herbs can give you the flavour of onion without being too strong! With its thin, green blades, this smallest member of the onion family imparts a mild, grassy flavour just like that of spring onions. The Asian variety of chives is called garlic chives. STORAGE The herb is available in markets. When buying, choose green leaves with no browning or wilting. It can be kept refrigerated for up to three days. PREPARATION There’s a lot you can do with chives. Make a creamy sauce out of it, use it as a garnish over salads and in sandwiches or add it to a hearty soup, the delicate herbs work just as well. It’s best to snip the chives with a small pair of scissors and do not overcook them or they will lose their taste. Our tip: Sprinkle chives on your omelette!
E D I T PAG E M A I L B OX Teach politicians a lesson This is with reference to the editorial ‘No More Tears’ (October 24). It is very unfortunate that the price of onions has crossed the Rs 100 per kilo mark. The common man is suffering. Such spurts in food prices are frequent now. One presumes that traders are able to get away with this as they are major contributors to the coffers of political parties. There is an unholy nexus between politicians, middlemen and traders. The man in the street will continue to bear the burden of price rise till this nexus is broken. It is time we stood together and taught the unscrupulous politicians the lesson of their life in the next elections.     R K Kapoor, CHANDIGARH Extend India China ties This is with reference to the editorial ‘Chummy with China’ (October 24). The situation along the India China border has changed significantly in recent times. In earlier decades intrusions were rare and border tensions were minimal. Today both countries are strengthening their military infrastructure and China has definitely taken a big lead here. Unfortunately this has been followed by recurring Chinese intrusions into our territory. In such a backdrop it is indeed good that both nations have signed a pact to manage the border. But ideally it should have covered more areas of the relationship. Improved relations with China will force other nations who are hostile to us on the back foot and even make the great powers take notice. And geographical factors also demand that we promote closer cooperation with China.     Bal Govind, NOIDA
Onion prices to come down by mid-November Priyangi Agarwal TNN Lucknow: There will be respite from soaring onion prices only around November 10-15 after the supply of the stock increases. According to UP Fruits and Vegetables Growers and Sellers Association, the middlemen and agents will release the hoarded onions in the market and the cost will fall to nearly Rs 50 per kg in local mandis.     President of UP Fruits and Vegetables Growers and Sellers Association, Satish Sonkar said, “The crop was damaged by heavy rains in Maharashtra, the major onion producer. After it was hyped that onion prices are set to rise further due to low stock, many traders started hoarding onions from February to create artificial scarcity.”     After the onion price hit the three-digit mark in some cities of the state, Union government announced that it will import onion from China and other neighbouring countries to stabilise the rising prices. The prices of onions are cheaper in other countries by nearly 50%. “Once imported onion hits the city market, consumers will prefer them over domestic ones. To save themselves from the loss, the profiteers will bring the hoarded stock to the market and increase the supply its price will fall,” said Sonkar. As per the vegetables wholesalers, the price of onion will come down to around Rs 50 and 40 per kg, respectively in retail and wholesale.     Experts have been speculating that hoarding is the reason behind the burgeoning onion price for the past many months. Even around October 17-18, the price of onion had been reduced to nearly Rs 50 per kg in Lucknow. In October 21-22, however, onion price hit Rs 100 per kg in Delhi and other parts of the country. “Only after price rise in Delhi, cost of onion suddenly jumped from Rs 50 to 75 and now 85 per kg in Lucknow over four days. It means the cost was increased on the basis of Delhi price,” said a wholesaler.     The surprising part is that farmers are getting Rs 15 per kg while the cost of onion by the time it reaches our home rises to Rs 85 kg, which means Rs 70 per kg is being taken away by middlemen. If one takes the daily demand into account, over Rs 67.20 lakh is being pocketed by profiteers.
Output much higher, so why are onions on fire? Subodh Varma TIG     It’s virtually impossible to tell why onion prices have gone through the roof. In the past 10 years, between 2002-03 and 2012-13, onion production has jumped from about 42 lakh metric tons (LMT) to 163 LMT. That’s an increase of nearly 300%.     In the same period, the country’s population has grown by about 1.7% each year. So, unless the whole country has suddenly become onion junkies, where is all this onion going?     It’s not that there’s been a slump in production. In fact, the production this fiscal is expected to be 10-15% higher than 2012-2013, based on kharif crop estimates. Agents pushing up onion rates     HR Sharma, deputy director at the Nasik based National Horticultural Research & Development Foundation (NHRDF), which is under the Union agriculture ministry, said the estimated production of onion in 2013-14 would be higher than the last fiscal.     Exports or use by the processing industry are also not the reasons behind shortfall in supply, says Jaigopal, director of the Directorate of Onion and Garlic Research, another agriculture ministry organization, based at Rajgurunagar. So, where is all the onion going? Apart from some very immediate causes of a dip in supply because of a rainy spell in September, the real reason appears to be the way the supply chain of onions works in India.     A report by the Competition Commission of India (CCI) on India’s onion market, released earlier this year, has pointed at the domination of traders and ‘commission agents’. “We found that established big traders, through a complex system of oral and informal linkages, dominated the primary mandis, discouraging others, often pre-concluding negotiations on prices, stopping auctions and determining higher prices,” explain Geeta Gouri, member of CCI.     The report prepared by the Institute for Social & Economic Change, Bangalore, included a field study of farmers, wholesale traders, commission agents, retailers and consumers connected with 11 mandis in the onion belt of Maharashtra and Karnataka. “A few big traders having well connected networks with market intermediaries in other markets seem to play a major role in hoarding for expected high prices,” the report emphasized.     For the full report, log on to     www.timesofindia.com 
Indians click for value this festive season E-Tail Websites’ Sales Surge 300% In 1 Month John Sarkar TNN New Delhi: Want fresh pethas straight from Agra? A refurbished LED at half its original price? Designer clothing at great bargains? Look no further than your laptop.     With onion prices shooting through the roof, valueconscious Indians are turning to the web to shop this festive season. Popular e-tail websites are reporting a 300% spurt in sales over last month. From chocolates and clothes to mobile phones and jewellery, consumers are enjoying the lower prices, the variety on offer and the convenience of shopping from the comfort of their homes. “The gifting category is pushing growth for most players,” says Manu Jain, co-founder of Jabong.     Sample this: A shopping portal from distribution and supply chain service firm GATI promises to deliver items such as kesar from Kashmir, Alphonso mangoes from Ratnagiri, peanuts from Baruch, chikki from Lonavala and haleem from Hyderabad to any place in the country in 12 hours flat. “Who would want to brave traffic jams and overcrowded markets,” says Bablu Tewari, COO at GATI-KWE. “People are now looking for one-click answers to their gifting needs.”     Think Diwali-specific categories such as thalis, home furnishings, decorations and artifacts. Says Saurabh Malik, business head, Indiatimes Shopping: “One of the most interesting trends we have noticed this year is that a lot of people from Tier-II and Tier-III towns are buying gifts online.” Though e-tail captures less than a per cent of the retail pie in India, which is very low compared to 6% in China and 5% in the US, it is the fastest growing category in the non-travel segment of e-commerce with 59% Y-o-Y growth, according to a report by global consultancy firm KPMG.     The Indian e-tail industry is pegged at Rs 13,000 crore by industry estimates. “Most people go online to check and compare features of high-involvement categories like consumer electronics and durables, but they end up buying something on impulse like gifts at the last minute,” says Anand Ramanathan, associate director, KPMG in India.     Country manager and head of consumer services at American Express Banking Corp Shailesh Baidwan agrees: “Nearly 40% of our card members transact online. This month, we are seeing a significant increase in their spending and card usage. Perhaps the discounts and offers on our cards for Diwali is contributing to the rise.”     Discounts are a big draw for people who are taking to the web to shop. “In the current unpredictable economic scenario, people want value for their money,” says Hitendra Chaturvedi, founder and CEO of GreenDust, a company that sells branded refurbished consumer durables like refrigerators, televisions, laptops and mobile phones on its website and retail stores. “Earlier, people were not very keen to buy refurbished electronics. This time, I’m not too surprised to see even affluent consumers from metros walking off with large factory-second LEDs at half the price.”     Unlike most offline retailers, which focus on just discounts and freebies, sites such as, Flipkart, Snapdeal, Jabong, Myntra and Yebhi are expanding the range of products on offer. “One of the main reasons is to tap women who are fast migrating to the online space,” says Nikhil Rungta, chief business officer at Yebhi. “From 75:25 a year ago, the split between male and female consumers who shop online has changed to 65:35.”     While Yebhi is banking on affordable fashion jewellery and western wear, Flipkart is pushing its new range of ethnic wear, which according to various retailers is snapped up briskly during festive periods. Says Ravi Vora, senior VP (marketing) at Flipkart, “We have started offering saris and we are already seeing a spike in numbers before Diwali.” SURFING TO SAVE     At Rs 13,000cr e-tailing accounts for 1% of India’s retail biz — far less than 6% in China & 5% in the US     But it’s the fastest growing segment of e-commerce (non-travel) at 59% annually, with Tier-II & -III towns giving biggest boost     This festive season, banks’ offers on cards, online discounts and the convenience of shopping from home has pushed sales     Netizens are lapping up even refurbished durables and taking on such offers as getting a haleem from Hyderabad in 12 hrs     Women are driving sales too, clocking a male-to-female ratio of 65:35, which is up from 75:25 a year ago
S N A P J U D G M E N T
Indian onions at 45 in Bangla Subhro Maitra TNN Malda: When the desi consumer is shelling out about Rs 70-80 a kilo, Indian grown onions are selling for taka 63-64 (Rs 45-47) in many markets of Bangladesh.     Almost 2,500 tonnes of onions are exported daily through five export centres in West Bengal — Mahadipur in Malda, Petrapol and Gojadanga in North 24-Parganas, Hili in South Dinajpur and Changrabandha in Cooch Behar — at a time when the Centre is mulling importing onion to keep prices down.     When onion prices started soaring across the country, the government hiked the export tariff for onion in late August by $200 per metric tonne, taking it to $900.     As a result, onion did get costlier in Bangladesh but not as high as on this side of the border.     Exporters pointed to central and state policies. Uzzwal Saha, joint secretary of Exporters’ Coordination Committee, said, “The price or export of onion is determined by Nafed. They had settled the export tariff and amount long ago, which is why onions have to be exported following the contract. While Bangladesh is getting onions cheaper, we are facing losses. We have demanded that the Nafed decide the rates according to market price.”     For the full report, log on to www.timesofindia.com 
THE MISSING FLAVOUR There’s no such thing as free onions Priyangi Agarwal TNN Lucknow: Don’t be surprised if you ask for onions, which usually come with your order of food at an eatery, and they charge you for it. The high price of onion has hit restaurants badly and small eateries in the city. As per a rough estimate, nearly 70% small restaurants and eatery shops are billing a bowl/plate of onion.     “Instead of giving complimentary onions at each table, we now serve radish with green chilies and lemon. After the price of onion touched Rs 50 per kg, it became unbearable for us and since two months, we are charging Rs 15 for a plate of onion, slices or rings of two small ones,” said Kamlesh Bhargava, owner of a small eatery shop at Rana Pratap Marg.     Similarly, some restaurants have added in their menu cards that onions served will be charged. “After we stopped serving onions, some customers used to argue with us and hence, we decided to mention it in the rate cards. However, we give a plate of cucumber and carrot at each table,” said Sudhir Varmani who runs a famous restaurant in Charbagh.     Some eateries have even increased the cost of dishes which involves a huge quantity of onion. “We have reduced our consumption of onion from 55 kg to 35 kg daily but still it has become tough to manage the rising expenses. For the past 40 days, we have hiked the price of some food items by nearly 20%. For instance, the cost of a plate of ‘paneer dopyaza’ has gone up from Rs 100 to 120,” said Deepak Bhatti, proprietor of an eatery shop.     High-end restaurants are also considering a price hike. Christopher Ransom, manager of a famous restaurant in the city said they were planning to revise their rate cards soon by 10-15% given the onion price hike. “We are finding it difficult to sustain old price. We serve pickled onions (vinegar onions) for free to our customers. At times, they ask us to give additional bowl of sliced onion which we cannot deny them. Besides the cost of other vegetables and LPG cylinder has increased in the past few months,” said Ransom.
POLITICALLY INCORRECT The EQ factor: When politicians get personal SHOBHAA DE Thank you, Rahul Gandhi for liberating me — liberating us — from the burden of suppressed emotions. Regardless of what his critics are saying about his Alwar outburst, I am pretty sure Rahul touched countless hearts. A no-holds-barred personal catharsis from a political bigwig on this scale and level is a hard act to top. But then again, Rahul’s extraordinary life is a hard act to compete against. When he chose to go public with his pain, there was so much anguish evident in his words and body language, it converted what could have been dismissed as a shrewd manipulative political stunt into a genuinely moving coming-to-terms-with-monumentalgrief moment. The dramatic transformation from an outspoken leader to a little boy trying his best to cope with profound personal tragedy was complete. And dare I say it? Convincing. His is a marked life. Let’s not get away from that horrible truth. It is an awareness Rahul Gandhi, all of 43, has to live with day in and day out. The deadly impact of this ghastly reality obviously struck him (and let’s not forget Priyanka), when the two terrified and shocked children crouched on the floor of a car on the advice of their security officers, as the vehicle sped to Delhi after the brutal assassination of their grandmother, Indira Gandhi. Her killers were trusted men Rahul said he had frequently played with in the compound of their bungalow. This was just the beginning of Rahul’s horror story.     Imagine the rage, hurt and bewilderment experienced by a 14-year-old at such a time. To that horrific memory was added the trauma of the assassination of his father Rajiv Gandhi at Sriperumbudur in 1991, aged 46. Rahul confessed in Alwar that he kept that anger bottled up for 15 long years, unable to deal with the twin tragedies. Today, he tells us, he is acutely aware he too could be killed. But he doesn’t care. Cynics will wonder about the timing of his confessional (Rajasthan goes to the polls on December 1). It is being said this is an attempt to cold bloodedly play the emotional card in order to sway the electorate. His sudden decision to reveal his ‘dil ki baat’ is being questioned and mocked by intellectuals and rivals. But you know what? Even if his new strategy (to share his life’s most dramatic and tragic moments), is nothing more than a manipulative tool, I have no problems with it. Indians are overly sentimental. The world may describe us as emotional fools. The world may also be right. But that’s us.     Rahul’s decision could backfire…and backfire pretty badly. But no other politician that I can recall has chosen to heal emotional wounds in public quite as openly. While Rahul’s attempt to link his personal loss and tragedy to the BJP’s bloody history of allegedly creating and fanning communal riots can be a point for deeper debate, his plea for putting hatred and vendetta aside cannot be ridiculed or dismissed. He referred to his own struggle to find closure after decades of seething and suffering within. Anybody who has experienced immeasurable grief at the loss of loved ones will easily identify with Rahul’s sorrow.     Rahul has opted for an overwrought personal narrative to woo voters. So be it. There is no real vision statement. His pitch is pretty obvious — “My family has suffered and sacrificed a lot in the service of the nation. I could be the next target. I urge you to shun violence. Save the country and vote for the Congress.” He has taken to referring to his mother’s role in his life a lot, as well. We know she cried over the controversial food security bill while he rushed her to hospital in an ambulance. We also know she is his guru. Is Rahul coming across as the ultimate wimp? Or as a sensitive man in touch with his inner self? It’s too early to say whether his latest approach will move people enough to give Congress another chance, based on nothing more than a passionate appeal from a leader who lost two dearly beloved family members to ugly politics. Politics rarely gives netas a space for sharing emotional issues. It is considered a waste of time at best, a useless self-indulgence, at worst. We are told voters only want to know about the price of onions and fuel. But in our frenzy to add up those wretched numbers and elect a new government at the Centre, we should not overlook the emotional quotient (EQ) of a people. Sometimes, a frank and free heart-toheart can achieve what logic and statistics can’t. If only we had more politicians sharing their dil ki baat with the nation!
Congress warns Modi on his ‘shehzada’ barb TIMES NEWS NETWORK Udaipur/New Delhi: The pitch in the Narendra Modi-Rahul Gandhi fight was raised further on Saturday with Congress warning the BJP’s prime ministerial candidate to stop addressing Rahul as ‘shehzada’. “Congress workers are not reacting out of respect for the model code of conduct and laws of the country. Otherwise, the use of such words can be stopped in two days,” Congress general secretary Janardan Dwivedi said.     However, Modi appeared impervious to the threat. At a rally in Udaipur, Modi spoke of about how the “shehzada” had come visiting Rajasthan recently. “Everybody in Congress is trying to comprehend what he said. Neither the writer nor the speaker is sure,” said Modi. He lashed out at the Congress vice-resident at a rally in Udaipur, saying, “Family serials like ‘Saas Bhi Kabhi Bahu Thi’ do well on television. I guess, shehzada is inspired by them. His speeches are more like them, where all he talks about his family,” Modi said. “I wondered from where this reference of ISI and Muzaffarnagar youngsters came. I was told that a police officer from Rajasthan who is seeking a Congress ticket had met him (Rahul) and briefed him about this. In turn, he shared this with the whole world,” said Modi. “Would you want to put the country in his hands?” he asked the crowd. Modi also hit out at the CBI for lapsing into inaction when it came to investigating PM Manmohan Singh in Coalgate cases. Modi, who has accused the CBI of targeting him for political reasons, said, “CBI ko saap soong jata hai (CBI behaves as if it has seen a snake)” when it reached the PM’s doorstep.     Criticizing Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot, Modi raked up the observations of the Human Rights Commission, Minorities Commission, the Supreme Court and high court against the state government. “Even the shehzada does not trust Gehlot or the state government here,” he said. Vajpayee’s niece resigns from BJP     In an embarrassment to the Chhattisgarh BJP ahead of assembly polls, former Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee’s niece Karuna Shukla, also its national vice-president, on Saturday resigned from the party, describing it as a pawn in hands of a few people in Chhattisgarh. Shukla, a BJP member for 32 years, accused the party of sidelining her. P 9 Modi accuses Cong of failing to curb inflation     If hewould have faith in them, he would not have sneaked into Gopalgarh without telling anybody. What did he do there? Rode on a stolen bike and was pillion rider to a man whose reputation everybody knows,” Modisaid, adding thatin the last five years, 25 cases of communal violence and 80 cases of communal tension were recorded in Rajasthan.     He alsotalked aboutMargaretAlva — the state governor and a Congress politician — who had criticized the Congress-ruled state’s poor record in tribal welfare. Alluding to the rape charge against state minister Babulal Nagar, who subsequently quit, Modi said, “In a democratic set-up, one goes to the state government to get complaints resolved. In this state, can any woman visit a minister without being worried abouther security?Andwhen the ministers are themselves involved in such crimes, can a government ensure security to women?”     He accused the Congress government of failing to curb inflation and high onion prices. “People in Delhi are not aware about ground realities. The production of onions dropped by 5% but prices increased by 150%.”
ET ANALYSIS Muslim clerics say Modi still a no-no Rohini Singh New Delhi: Three prominent Muslim clerics have unleashed a fresh barrage of criticism at the Congress, slamming it for mistreating their community, while at the same time dismissing suggestions they were warming up to Narendra Modi.     The leaders — Maulana Syed Kalbe Jawad Naqvi and Maulana Abur Irfan Firangi Mahali from Uttar Pradesh, and Maulana Muhammed Wali Rahmani from Bihar — told ET that while Modi was still to prove through his deeds that he cares for the welfare of Muslims, the Congress was trying to scare the community into supporting it.     The clerics were especially critical of Congress vice president Rahul Gandhi’s recent statement on Pakistani agents trying to ensnare riot-scarred Muslim youth in UP’s Muzzafarnagar district.     “There is no difference between Narendra Modi and Rahul Gandhi. He (Gandhi) has deliberately insulted Muslims. How can ISI agents come to government-run camps? Gandhi has rubbed salt into our wounds,” said Maulana Kalbe Jawad, a prominent Shia leader from Uttar Pradesh and part of the All India Muslim Personal Law Board.     His comments come close on the heels of comments by his uncle, prominent Shia cleric and vice president of the All India Muslim Personal Law Board, Kalbe Sadiq who last week said Modi, the BJP’s prime ministerial candidate for 2014 elections, was not a political untouchable and could even get Muslim votes if he changes himself.     Maulana Firangi Mahali, a prominent leader of the Sunni community from UP, accused the Congress of “scare-mongering” to divert attention from real issues. “Rahul Gandhi’s latest statement on ISI is an attempt to take attention away from real issues of price rise and food inflation. Muslims eat onions also and purchase gas. Those issues matter more than some fairy tale about the ISI,” he said.     The comments cannot be pleasant reading for the Congress, which will be hoping for Muslims voting for it en masse in the next general elections, in line with the community’s past history of tactical voting in favour of political parties that best protect its interests.     With the Hindu vote traditionally splintered and divided across multiple political formations, the Muslim community could play a crucial role in determining the winner especially in the two battleground states of Uttar Pradesh and Bihar.     Several Muslim leaders have of late been critical of the Congress for not keeping its promises to the community and also for the rising incidence of its youth being arrested, often falsely they say, in terror cases.     The clerics, speaking to ET over the weekend, dismissed any change of heart in the community towards Modi, but said the Congress was using his name to scare a section of Muslims.
Not raising rates sky high because of disinflation in rural wages: Guv TIMES NEWS NETWORK     After unveiling the monetary policy review, RBI governor Raghuram Rajan’s made it clear that taming inflation is his prime objective, without losing sight of a slowing economy. Excerpts: Further rate hike That should not be the assumption. What we have said is that we are comfortable with where we are right now, based on the environment that we see, as well as the projections we have made. Going forward, if the data come in very different either way than what we think, obviously we will have to take steps… We have taken some actions and that would be helpful. We aren’t raising interest rates sky high because we believe that there is some disinflation setting in which is seen in rural wages. Alot of players have to come in and participate in bringing down inflation. The RBI is not the only player. Inflation & targets It (consumer price inflation -CPI) will be lower than 9% (in March). The RBI looked at both WPI and CPI, although they talked a lot in terms of WPI. We haven’t changed the goalpost as far as WPI goes but we also need to bring in CPI. We can’t live with close to double-digit CPI for an extended period of time. My intention is also to bring CPI within the boundaries of control. Of course, WPI is partly the result of food inflation, partly the result of exchange rate depreciation (and) we have to also bring that within the 5% norm. There is a committee looking at what should be the goalpost for CPI, what should be the goalpost for WPI and what emphasis should we put on one. CPI is what the common man faces it includes health and education. High onion prices & rate hike The rate hike was not meant to quell onion prices. We have no immediate capacity to bring down onion prices. It is an issue. Clearly, demand hasn’t shot up suddenly so there is an element of supply side. Growth pick-up in 2nd half Economy is around turning points. The big uncertainty is on the projects which have been cleared—when they come on stream, they will alleviate liquidity stress in the system. We have seen some pick-up in exports in recent months but this goes against the grain of global trade, which has seen very muted growth. If this continues, it will be very positive. The flip side is that our imports have also come down. And of course, there is agriculture, which should see healthy growth and that will also enhance rural sentiments and related industries. Bank licences for those facing probe Initial scrutiny will be done by RBI officers and an internal committee and their observations will be passed on to a high level committee, which will take a call. But whether there are cases or no cases, we have taken into account everything. NPA recovery We have offered a nuanced view to banks. In case of genuine difficulties, we have to find ways to get assets back on track. Nobody wins if the economy is deprived of a power plant or a road which would otherwise be functional and help the economy. But we have also said that in situation where the promoter is clearly unable to carry that forward or where there is clear evidence of diversion, banks should take action. Changing the promoter is not easy. Banks cannot be solely made responsible for NPAs. There are possibilities for us to ease the way for putting assets back on track and we are exploring that. We will come out with measures shortly. The idea is to get the economy back on track.
‘States must show initiative on food prices’ TIMES NEWS NETWORK New Delhi: While identifying inflation as a key challenge, finance minister P Chidambaram on Friday lobbed the ball into the states’ court, saying they should show greater initiative to tame high food prices as the Centre had little influence.     “There is nothing that anyone can do to contain inflation in food… States need to show greater initiative,” he told a news conference, adding that the Centre can use food stocks to moderate prices of grains and pointed to the initiative taken by the government .     Food inflation has hovered at 18%, with onion prices sky-rocketing to over Rs 100 a kg in certain markets such as Congress-ruled Delhi. The government has repeatedly taken the plea that it can do little to control vegetable prices. In the recent flare-up in onion prices, states were blamed for not monitoring the supply. West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee has ringfenced the supply of potatoes from her state, leading to spiraling prices in some areas. The government has also blamed hoarded for the sharp spike in onion prices.     Although union agriculture minister Sharad Pawar and food minister K V Thomas have not refrained from repeatedly predicting a fall in onion prices, only to get it wrong, Chidambaram refused to make such forecasts. He said that steps taken by the government to repair the fiscal deficit will help check inflationary expectations in the economy.     With little success in controlling vegetable prices, Chidambaram sought to hard sell the initiative to moderate wheat prices, which have remained high despite the government stashing the grain in warehouses.
Gold sales decline by half on Dhanteras Bella Jaisinghani TNN Mumbai: Jewellers and bullion traders across the city said Dhanteras 2013 saw gold sales dip by half compared to the previous year. They blamed the falling sentiment on spiralling food inflation, the high cost of the yellow metal and reduced availability. Trade associations tabulate sales figures on Saturday but anecdotal evidence suggested this was the lowest ebb in many years.     Jewellery stores witnessed a buying trend for silver because customers who wished to make a nominal mahurat purchase settled for the cheaper metal.     On Friday 24-carat pure gold that is used in bullion (coins and jewellery) cost an average of Rs 30,330 per 10 gm while silver was selling for Rs 50,000 per kg. By comparison, 22-carat gold which is used to make jewellery cost Rs 29,500 on average. In Delhi, gold prices are ruling at Rs 31,400 per 10 grams, lower than Rs 32,485 on the last Dhanteras.     In fact, high-end showrooms in Bandra west were quoting prices for a single gram of gold, hoping to draw buyers. There was no clear preference for ornaments or bullion, with some opting to buy jewellery to wear while others chose to lock their money in pure coins. Young IT employee Sameer Kale and his wife Asmita came to a jeweller on J P Road, Andheri, with a budget of Rs 5,000. “This is the best we can do, although we are newly married and this is her first Dhanteras,” said Sameer. His bride settled on a finger ring weighing 1.8gm and was debating what else to pick. “The first year of my marriage has taught me how difficult it is to run the house. Onions are at Rs 60 per kg since four months, and today on Dhanteras day, tomatoes have come to cost Rs 60 as well. I am advising my husband to be thrifty,” Asmita said.     Bipin Jain, vice president of the Bombay Bullion Association, said business was down by 50% as compared to last year. “Demand picked up slightly on Dhanteras day, which is heartening since bookings over the last eight days were not encouraging at all. Gold supply is also low owing to the government’s faulty policies. Increasing import duties and curbs have dampened arrivals this year,” he said.     Jain says more people had opted to buy silver. “Even traditionally sales of silver are high at Dhanteras, and this year more so. Those who are determined to buy some amount of gold are settling for small coins weighing one or two grams,” he said.     Depleting purchasing power saw common buyers throng to pick up steel vessels and puja items. The mahurat between 6.30 pm and 8.30 pm was recommended by astrologers, and the evening hour suited families heading into the Diwali weekend.
Onion murders: Gang loots truck, kills driver and cleaner TIMES NEWS NETWORK Lucknow/Varanasi: With sky-high prices, onions are just not worth dying for, they’re worth killing for. Cops in UP discovered this when they busted a gang in Jaunpur which they accuse of having killed the driver and cleaner of an onion-laden truck the criminals looted last month.     Police said during interrogation, the criminals confessed to the killings and said they threw the driver’s body somewhere between Badlapur and Singramau, while the cleaner’s body was dumped in a ditch near Lambhua in Sultanpur district.     Police say the gang targeted onion-laden trucks coming from Tamil Nadu and Andhra Pradesh.     So far, five gangsters have been caught, while three are absconding. On Thursday, Jaunpur cops nabbed three --Bhonu Kashyap, Daya Shankat Saroj and Bharat Lal --from Satrahia Pawara on the UP-MP border. The onion loot was found to be in their possession. Two other members had already been arrested on the special task force’s (STF) tipoff. During investigation, the accused told the police that before killing the driver and cleaner during the onion loot, they had also looted a tomatoladen truck and killed its driver in Azamgarh. The truck’s cleaner had escaped with injuries. The looters had failed to sell the tomatoes as their quality had deteriorated due to delay. The truck was recovered from Mau district.     According to DIG Varanasi Range A Satish Ganesh, the gang had looted the onion-laden truck in Satrahia area on October 7. The STF got intelligence about the loot and alerted the Jaunpur police.     The DIG said the gang members posed as sales tax officers to stop the trucks, especially those coming from southern states like Tamil Nadu and Andhra Pradesh. The drivers and cleaners were drugged before being attacked.
Sibal: Modi to be blamed for onion price rise TIMES NEWS NETWORK New Delhi: Congress’s offensive against Narendra Modi took an interesting turn on Friday with Union law minister Kapil Sibal putting the blame of high prices of onions on BJP’s PM candidate while also asking him to explain from where he finds huge funds for his rallies.     Sibal said the country suffered a shortage of onions as the Modi government had handed over huge tracts of land in Kutch, which accounts for a big part of the onion crop, to the Adani group. “Those onions used to come here,” Sibal said, focusing on the alleged responsibility of the Gujarat government even though he also talked about the role of hoarders. ‘Modi responsible for onion price rise’ New Delhi: Congress’s offensive against Narendra Modi took an interesting turn on Friday with Union law minister Kapil Sibal putting the blame of high prices of onions on BJP’s PM candidate while also asking him to explain where he finds huge funds from for his rallies.     Sibal said the country suffered a shortage of onions as the Modi government had handed over huge tracts of land in Kutch, which accounts for a big part of the onion crop, to the Adani group. “Those onions used to come here,” Sibal said, focusing on the alleged responsibility of the Gujarat government even though he also talked about the role of hoarders.     The day also saw finance minister P Chidambaram suggesting that the Gujarat CM needed to improve his understanding of economics. “It is good that he is taking interest in economics. As he takes more interest, he will learn more,” Chidambaram said in response to a question from reporters.     At a function he held to mark the launch of his personal website, Sibal said Modi was distorting facts and was running away from addressing the media, even as he invited him for a debate over the UPA’s performance in comparison to that of the NDA. The comment, which came amid public resentment over the spike in onion prices, immediately invited a retaliatory attack from BJP, with leader of opposition in Rajya Sabha Arun Jaitley scoffing at Sibal’s challenge to Modi for a debate.     “The kind of attendance at Modi’s rallies is among the largest I have seen in the last few decades. Congress has been rattled. They don’t know how to deal with the possible outcome of the 2014 general elections. Therefore, second rank leaders of the Congress have jumped in to mount a personalized attack on Modi,” he said.     Jaitley also said people had figured out the leaders who are trying to distract attention from the UPA’s failures. Interestingly, Sibal had turned down the suggestion from BJP that he should spar with fellow lawyer Jaitley, saying that the leader of opposition was not the PM candidate.
Onion smiles for Indian tourists in Thailand Bangkok: A tear-jerker is bringing smiles to the faces of Indian tourists in Thailand. The onion, whose prices have hit the roof across India, is the most sought-after in recipes and salads by visiting Indians.     “It’s time to look for dishes that are garnished with onions. Back home it’s now a luxury,” said Arshuman Singh, who was here on a holiday with his wife Divya.     “We have also ordered a plate of salad with onions only,” Singh told a visiting IANS correspondent.     The Delhi-based couple was at Bawarchi, an Indian restaurant on Sukhumvit Road, the main arterial avenue of the city with shopping malls and fine dining restauarants.     Another couple, Atul Kumar and Jyoti, said they enjoyed mussels steamed with lemongrass and garnished with plenty of onions.     In India the price of onions, the base for most of the curries and traditional dishes, has skyrocketed to over Rs.80 a kg, compared with Rs.20 three months back. It’s, however, just 20 baht or Rs.39.61 in Bangkok. One Thai baht equals Rs.1.98.     Trade representatives here say the demand for green onions is more in Bangkok compared to bulb onions.     Akg of green onions varies around 40 baht but the common or dry onions remain less than 20 baht.     Green onions are young shoots of dry onions and are milder tasting than large bulb onions. They have a small, not fully developed white bulb end with long green stalks.     Chi Shen, a chef in The Imperial Queen’s Park, told IANS that the green onion is an essential ingredient in countless Thai recipes compared to the bulb ones. IANS
E R R A T I C A Poll Dopyaza Ruling parties and rules alike rue the rise in onion prices Bachi Karkaria Moscow has onion domes; we’ve had onion tomes. Ever since its price began getting magnetised by the North Pole, everybody, from Kapil Sibal to Swaminathan Aiyar, has been sounding like the honorary secretary of the Lasalgaon Kanda Vyapari Samiti. The lofty Mr Sibal’s familiarity with the humble pyaz may stem from the regularity with which he is called upon to ‘grace’ festive celebrations at the sabzi mandis of Chandni Chowk. The erudite Mr Aiyar’s economic preoccupations make commodity prices part of his professional constituency. But it’s amusing to hear all matters onion being pontificated on by scribes whose association with it may never have gone beyond the finely sliced accompaniment to their regular tangdi and tipple at the Delhi Press Club. Is it because ‘onion’ and ‘opinion’ are separated only by a ‘pi’?     Most recently even my friend Kumar Ketkar served up a pithy kanda quip: that hoarders had done what the government should have when NAFED predicted a shortage way back in June. He’s normally as sparing in his choice of sparring subjects as he is unsparing of all fascists. But now that this humble staple has entered the ‘politics of ate’, every pundit must know his onions.     From 1980 onwards, it has been the Waterloo of every party – from Janata to Congress to BJP. Indeed, the battle of the hustings is lost on the growing fields of Satara. Yes, the rise in onion prices coinciding with polls is as catastrophic as heavy rainfall coinciding with high tide in Mumbai. To continue with Napoleon, ‘Apres that, le deluge.’     Since everything today seems to centre on him, the BJP’s prime ministerial candidate naturally had to become a kanda-didate. Mr Sibal airily pinned the blame on Narendra Modi. Had he been hoarding them like his ambitions? NaMo, bhai, na. According to the Union law minister, the crisis arose because the investment-greedy CM had turned over large tracts of the onion-growing belt of Kutch to the Adani Group. Mo-detractors may cite this as one more example of Dhokla No. 1’s dhoka on ‘development’. Uh-huh, onion traders may be Gujarati, but the ‘kanda-bowl’ is Maharashtra and Karnataka. These uncommon times need uncommon remedies. So, like CRPF/army battalions being rushed to communal hotspots, Maharashtra’s Congress chief minister was rushing truckloads of onions to Delhi to prevent the party’s massacre in the assembly election. Several such mutations have been witnessed as a result of the mushroom cloud of onion prices. Prithviraj Chavan’s relief convoys could be a gold haul for the new band of brigands now looting lorries bearing this precious commodity. In UP, they killed the driver and cleaner as they made off with the booty near Lucknow, while from Varanasi came reports that this was now an interstate operation. What next? ‘Gangs of Pyazipur’ directed by Onionrag Kashyap? Every point rise is being whooped over by rivals of the ruling party in each state going to the polls, and the political gains of the booming sensex are being wiped out in the lowly sabzi mandis of mofussil towns. Brisk muhurat trading ushered in Vikram Samvat 2070, but we are still to confirm the rumour that onions had replaced dry-fruit barfi as the Diwali gift of choice. It’s become a multi-pronged game changer. Cookery pages helpfully offer onion substitutes. Why, with the bulb so expensive, we may even need to rethink the philosophical-spiritual metaphor. No one’s going to peel away and bin the all-important layers; the search for the inner core can wait. Let’s give the last word to the Bengalis. Their favourite shade for traditional tangail and dhakai saris used to be ‘on-yon skin’ pink. The uncontrollable price rise has created a deeper shade of face. * * * Alec Smart said: “Hope nothing Mars the mission.” bachi.karkaria@timesgroup.com http://blogs.timesofindia.indiatimes.com/erratica 
S N A P J U D G M E N T
DISTANT DREAM Veggie prices in N India still up Dipak Kumar Dash TNN New Delhi: The government’s claim that prices of onion, potato and tomato would come down moderate soon have fallen flat. While price of onion is hovering around Rs 70 a kg, tomatoes cost Rs 60-70 in most north Indian cities.     Potato prices have increased in almost all cities barring Ludhiana and Amritsar.A comparison of retail prices in the last 12 days based on details provided by the price monitoring cell of consumer affairs ministry shows that tomato prices increased by Rs 18 per kg in Delhi while potato prices rose Rs 4 a kg.     Prices of onion, tomato and potato went up in other cities, including Chandigarh, Lucknow, Kanpur, Dehradun and Indore. However, retail prices of these veggies three remained stable in Mumbai.This is despite government functionaries, including food and consumer affairs minister K V Thomas, saying prices would start moderating after Diwali. Even Centre’s advisory to states to crack down on hoarders and middlemen making a killing has not worked.Sources said while shooting tomato prices was due to incessant insistent rain that damaged the produce in many parts of the country, particularly in hill states and eastern region, traders were making the maximum profit.     This is evident from the fact that on Tuesday, while the wholesale tomato price in Delhi was Rs 33 per kg, the retail price was Rs 60. In Amritsar, it was no different.Against wholesale prices of Rs 35 per kg, tomato was selling at Rs 80 per kg in the retail market. However, both wholesale and retail potato prices have remained constant in cities of Punjab.
Costly veggies push retail inflation to double digits TIMESNEWSNETWORK New Delhi: Retail inflation returned to double digits in October after a gap of seven months following a surge in vegetable prices and other food items, posing fresh worry for the government facing polls in states and general elections next year.     Data released by the statistics office on Tuesday showed retail inflation as measured by the consumer price index rose an 10.09% in October against last year, rising from the previous month’s 9.84%. It hit the double-digit mark in urban and rural areas. Inflation rates for rural and urban areas for October 2013 were 10.11% and 10.2%. Final inflation rates for rural and urban areas for September 2013 were 9.71% and 9.93%.     The key driver for the surge were vegetable prices which shot up 45.67% year-on-on year in October. Vegetable prices have remained a pressure point for several months, with onion, tomato and potato prices spiralling due to supply problems.     Eggs, fish and meat rose an annual 11.78% in October, fruits shot up 12.84% year-on-year. Cereal prices rose an annual 12.05%. The overall food and beverage inflation in October stood at 12.56% year-on-year.
Onion prices up 278%, tomato 122% in 1 year TIMES NEWS NETWORK New Delhi: Inflation as measured by the wholesale price index (WPI) soared to an eight-month high of 7% yearon-year in October on the back of spiralling vegetable prices, raising the prospect of an increase in interest rates when RBI reviews its monetary policy mid-December.     The spike in prices was led largely by a surge in food costs. The increase in the inflation rate both at the retail and wholesale level should come as a fresh policy worry for the government and RBI.     Commerce and industry ministry data on Thursday showed that the WPI rose 7% year-on-year, accelerating from the previous month’s 6.5%. The inflation rate in October 2013 was 7.32%. Vegetable prices shot up 78.4% year-on-year in October — onion prices rose by an annual 278.2% while tomato shot up by 122% over October last year.Overall food inflation remained at double-digit level, rising an annual 18.2%, data released by the commerce and industry ministry on Thursday showed. Eggs, meat and fish rose an annual 17.5% while fruits shot up 15.9% year-onyear. There was some cheer on the pulses front as prices declined 11.2% year-on-year in October.     Policymakers said food inflation was uncomfortable but hoped that the pressure would ease once supplies go up. The government has spoken about easing supplies in the past but the problem of stubborn food inflation has persisted for nearly three years. It has hurt household budgets and the increase in interest rates has heaped more pain on those paying home and vehicle loans.     Planning Commission deputy chairman Montek Singh Ahluwalia was optimistic that the pressure would ease once fresh supplies hit the market. “I think it clearly remains uncomfortable because of food inflation. Core inflation is still quite modest. I think the food inflation must come down,” he told reporters. “I would certainly hope that on the supply situation will improve due to the decision to offload certain stock taken earlier (by the government). Some seasonal spikes in few items will get corrected.” Price pressures: Fresh worries in financial markets New Delhi: Overall food inflation remained at doubledigit level, rising an annual 18.2%, data released by the commerce and industry ministry on Thursday showed.     Retail inflation data released on Tuesday showed the rate touched double-digits in October on the back of a sharp increase in vegetable prices, fuelling expectations that the central bank may tighten interest rates to tackle the price pressures.     The RBI has expressed concern over the stubborn retail and wholesale price inflation and said they are expected to remain elevated in the months ahead     The sharp upward revision of the August reading from 7% from the previous 6.1% raised fresh worries in financial markets about price pressures.     “WPI has seen a steady uptrend since May, largely due to two shocks that hit India almost simultaneously in the second quarter of 2013-14 — the INR depreciation and surge in vegetable prices,” said Rohini Malkani, economist at Citigroup India.     “Going forward, while the currency has reversed a third of its fall, vegetable prices are yet to normalize. This coupled with the adverse base effect is likely to result in inflation remaining in the 6.4%-7% range in the coming months. We maintain our call of a 25 basis points hike in policy rates in the second half of the 2013-14 fiscal year,” Malkani said.
Veg has biggest slice of pizza pie in India John Sarkar TNN     India might be the world’s top beef exporter, and its consumption of meat and eggs may be growing, but when it comes to the favourite fast food of the middle class — pizzas — veg is how they like it.     According to Ajay Kaul, CEO of Jubilant Foodworks, which is the master franchisee in the country for Domino’s Pizza and Dunkin’ Donuts, nearly seven out of 10 pizzas sold at Domino’s outlets are vegetarian. Domino’s owns the largest slice of the Rs 2,300-crore organized India pizza market with a 67% market share, as per a recent report by London-based market intelligence firm Euromonitor.     And that’s not even counting the umpteen street joints which serve up desi vegetarian pizzas — usually a combination of tomato, onion and capsicum topped with oodles of processed cheese. “When it comes to junk food, there aren’t many options for vegetarians. So, most of them opt for veg pizzas,” says nutritionist and celebrity food guru Pooja Makhija. “Even while travelling abroad, vegetarians depend on pizzas over any other food.”     In India, the per capita consumption of pizzas might still be a measly four pizzas a year compared to Americans who consume 350 slices a second but pizzas constitute nearly half of all the fast food eaten here, according to market research firm Crisil. Sandwiches are the second choice. And despite the current economic slowdown, the domestic market for pizzas is growing at a CAGR (compounded annual growth rate) of 25%, encouraging foreign players to open more stores.The second largest pizza seller in the country, Pizza Hut, a brand of Yum! Restaurants, is also banking on its vegetarian customers. Apart from operating three vegetarian-only pizza outlets in Surat, Rajkot and Ahmedabad, its extensive menu, even in metros, is dominated by vegetarian options. “Our non-veg offerings contribute only 30% to our pizza sales,” says Sanjiv Razdan, brand general manager of Pizza Hut Delivery India. “We couldn’t have ignored such an important businessgenerating segment.” Punjab too a huge market for veg offerings     Pizza Hut recently ventured into Vadodara and after conducting an extensive door-to-door survey, came up with a pizza with potato toppings. According to Razdan, it’s not just the regions with vegetarian leanings like Gujarat that are driving the demand for vegetarian pizzas. “Even states like Punjab, which one would usually associate with meat-loving people, are a huge market for our vegetarian offerings,” he says.     Reports by the UN Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) point out that Indians’ per capita consumption of meat stands at nearly 5-5.5kg a year. Though it is paltry compared to the Asian average of 27kg and the world average of 38kg, industry experts, such as Arvind Singhal, head of Technopak, says that it is increasing year on year.
Massive fall in onion prices expected in January Dipak Kumar Dash TNN New Delhi: After months of scarcity that pushed onion prices in some cities beyond Rs 100 per kg, there are indications that farmers will end up selling their fresh produce to traders below Rs 7-8 per kg by January-February. While this will come as a big relief to the new governments that will come to power in five states, it may lead to a fresh crisis, experts said.     Wholesale onion prices have already fallen to around Rs 1,700 and Rs 1,800 per quintal in major maketplaces and in the next two months, prices may further drop to Rs 800-Rs 900. The retail prices in major cities such as Delhi, Ludhiana, Lucknow, Patna and Kolkata have reduced by Rs 20-Rs 30 per kg in the last week. “In January-February, when the late kharif crop will hit the markets, wholesale prices may be around Rs 5 kg, which is unsustainable for farmers. There will be a huge supply of the crop to markets since farmers can’t store them for more than a fortnight,” said H P Sharma, deputy director (statistics) at the National Horticultural Research and Development Foundation.     C B Holkar, a board member of the National Agricultural Cooperative Marketing Federation of India, said the government may face a fresh crisis in the next two months with indications of farmers hitting the streets. “The projected prices will mean huge losses for farmers. There would be protests if the government does not address the issue in time. At the present minimum export price (MEP), traders won’t find overseas buyers,” he said. Projections by all horticulture bodies hint at higher production this year with farmers have taken up late kharif cultivation in a big way. Holkar said the government would have to scrap the MEP by mid-December to ensure that farmers get the right price for their produce.
Why This Is India’s ABC Election Inflation explains why voters now think Anything But Congress Ruchir Sharma There was no mystery about what rankles the voters. From the badlands of Bhind in northern Madhya Pradesh to the colourful bazaars of Pushkar in central Rajasthan, the neighbourhood barber, the local carpenter and the small farmer would angrily reel off to the exact rupee the rise in prices for onions, potatoes and ghee over the last five years.     On the campaign trail, talk of inflation trumped other hot button issues such as corruption and unemployment. While it is hard to reduce the complexities of an Indian election to a single factor, it seems inflation played a decisive and yet underappreciated role in the Congress’s resounding defeat in the state elections held over the past month.     Prime Minister Manmohan Singh has now presided over one of the worst inflation episodes in the post-Independence history of India. With consumer prices rising at an average annual pace of 10% over the last five years, India has never seen inflation so high for so long, or at such an unlikely time. India now sticks out as an outlier in a world where many countries are worried about deflation. Historically, India’s inflation rate was lower than the emerging market average, but it is currently double the average. For decades, India’s ranking among nations by inflation rate had hovered in the mid-60s, but lately it has plunged to 142nd out of 153 emerging markets.     The inflation problem says a lot about what has gone wrong with India’s economic model under the Congress party. The Singh government has let fuel and fertiliser subsidies spin out of control and bought wheat and rice at artificially high prices to appease large farmers. It has been building an expansive welfare state, rather than pursuing reforms to boost productivity, which would allow for higher growth without rising prices. The government has also been pushing up wages through, for example, measures to guarantee employment to rural workers. Over the past five years, rural wages have been rising at an annual pace of 15% – faster than productivity growth and higher than in any other Asian country.     Now India appears to be catching the Latin American disease of rising prices and falling growth. As workers come to expect higher prices, they increasingly demand higher wages, leading to a destructive wage-price spiral. Indian households expect consumer prices to rise another 13% next year, according to a survey of inflationary expectations by the Reserve Bank of India.     One reason Indian voters are turning so sharply against Congress is that its policymakers do not seem to understand the depth of the inflation problem. Early on they dismissed inflation as a temporary threat, or a threat only to food prices, even as prices started to rise in other areas such as services. In recent years, government officials posited that inflation is a natural reflection of rising demand in a prospering economy, a view that may be commonplace but does not square with the facts. Singh, an economist, should have known better. But his anti-inflation credentials have long been suspect. The last time India had to grapple with the problem of double-digit inflation was during his much-heralded term as finance minister in the mid-1990s.     Most countries that have managed to sustain rapid growth for a long period – including Japan and Korea – did so by investing heavily in roads, factories and other new capacity that helped to meet rising demand while keeping prices down to less than the emerging market average. In India, the rate of growth in private investment has been slowing due to concerns about rising corruption, corporate debt and regulatory uncertainty – feeding that general sense of an economy going to pot.     The irony here is rich. Many of India’s leading economists have in recent months been consumed by the rather puerile debate between growth and equity. The Congress, true to its socialist roots, has come down on the side of equality, and has ramped up its class warfare rhetoric. But no one is hurt more by inflation than the poor. The next government needs to control populist spending and find ways to encourage new investment, but India’s central bank needs to act too. Up to now, the bank’s mandate has given it multiple and shifting objectives, including ensuring adequate credit growth and securing financial stability, but it is time for India to adopt an explicit inflation target.     The inflation target works by keeping easy money in check, putting pressure on the government to control its spending habits. Research shows that lowincome countries tend to fare better after adopting an inflation target, which is why virtually every major emerging market has done so, with the exception of India. The central bank now has a governor who is much more popular than the Congress government, and has the clout he needs to get tough on inflation.     Whatever India does, it is not likely to be done under the Congress party as the mood of the nation is for an Anybody But Congress or an ABC government. The state elections were billed as the ‘semi-final’ before national elections. The results knocked the Congress party out of serious contention, at least for now and the finals in May are shaping up as a face-off between the opposition BJP and various regional parties. If these parties are listening to the voters, they will make the fight against inflation priority number one.     The writer is head of emerging markets at Morgan Stanley Investment Management.
EXCEPTION HERE
Pawar blames ‘weak’ ally for rout Regional Satraps Read The Big Message In The Results TIMES NEWS NETWORK New Delhi: Agriculture minister Sharad Pawar on Monday blamed the “weak” Congress leadership for its complete rout in assembly elections in four states and the rise of the Aam Aadmi Party,whom hedescribed as“pseudo activists”.     In his blog, Pawar said people were looking for strong, decisive and result oriented leaders. “They do not want weak rulers, but they want those who willformulate policies and programmes for the poor and implement them with firmness,”hesaid.     Pawar recalled Indira Gandhi’s strong and decisive leadership, saying shetookbolddecisionssuch as nationalization of banks and ending privy purses, which she implemented with conviction andfirmness.     The NCP chief, who was once in the Congress, said during Indira’s regime, leaders were fully aware of the ground reality. Pawar blamed the party’s weak leadership for the rise of AAP, which made a stunning debutin Delhi.“Oflate, weak leadership at various levels has given a rise to a bunch of pseudo activistswhohave noconnectwith ground realities,” he said. “That class of people always willing to give free advice on every matter was absentthen.Suchistheclout of these free advisors that the media as well as the government fall prey to them….We needtothink aboutthistoo,” he added.     Pawar arguedthe youthdrifted away from Congress due to weak leadership and vented their anger through the ballot. “When such confidence is lacking in the rulers,other power centers arelikely to spring. This was the big lesson to be learnt from the assembly election results.”     However, Congress downplayed Pawar’s remark, saying such issues were discussed at appropriate forum. “We do not talk with our allies through the media, we do so at an appropriate forum,” party spokesman Meem Afzal said. Pawar also termed AAP leader Arvind Kejriwal's poll promises as hollow. “We also need to think about the class of people trying to influence and change public opinion through impractical ideas,”hesaid.     The minister saidAAPhad garnered votes by promising to bring down prices of onions, vegetables and electricity rates, but this was not in the hands of state governments. He said AAP's campaign promised a corruption-free Delhi, butthesamesetof peoplewantedillegal coloniestobe regularized.
PROBLEM OF PLENTY Onion over-supply leads to crisis now Dipak Kumar Dash | TNN New Delhi: The government seems to be facing another onion crisis. If just a month ago it was scarcity and high prices that forced the government to almost stop export, this time abundant production and crashing prices is likely to cause unrest among onion growers ahead of the elections.     There were reports of farmers halting business in Nashik on Tuesday as the wholesale price touched Rs 9.5 per kg at Asia’s largest onion mandi, Lasalgaon. Though for the past one month farmers’ leaders and observers had been maintaining that the huge supply can be addressed only by substantially reducing minimum export price for onion or scrap it altogether, the government has now reduced it by about 30%.     In November, the crisis was so acute, with the vegetable selling at Rs 80 per kg, the government almost stopped export, increasing the MEP to make overseas selling unviable.
To boost exports, onion MEP fixed at $350/tonne TIMES NEWS NETWORK New Delhi: Crashing onion prices — hovering around Rs 10 per kg and even touching Rs 7-8 — in wholesale markets across the country coupled with farmers’ protest in parts of Maharashtra has forced government to reduce the minimum export price (MEP) to only $350 (Rs 21,800) per tonne. This is second major reduction in the MEP in the past one week to promote export.     Sources said that the commerce ministry notified the fresh price for export on Thursday after Maharashtra chief minister Pritviraj Chavan wrote to commerce minister Anand Sharma and protesting farmers’ cause was taken up with agriculture minister Sharad Pawar.     For both Congress and NCP, prolonged protest by onion growers could have impacted their political fortunes in the next Lok Sabha election.
EXCEPTION HERE
Non-subsidized LPG to cost 220 more in city TIMESNEWNETWORK New Delhi: Oil companies have silently increased the price of non-subsidized cooking gas (LPG) cylinders by Rs 220, one of the sharpest ever hikes aimed at shifting the burden of higher global prices on consumers.     Following the increase, a 14.2 kg non-subsidized cooking gas cylinder in Lucknow will cost Rs 1,293, up from Rs 1,072.50. Though the move will not impact all households, it is going to upset those consuming more than their quota of nine subsidized cylinders.     While you are entitled to nine subsidized gas cylinders each fiscal, any purchase beyond this level has to be made at the prevailing market rate.     In some of the states, such as Uttar Pradesh, the local government provides subsidy for another three cylinders. At present, subsidized cylinders cost Rs 427 each in Lucknow. The price of LPG has been hiked by Rs 287 in the city since December 1.Coming in the last quarter of the financial year, several households would have exhausted their share of subsidized cylinders, resulting in a dent in household budgets at a time when they are just recovering from a bout of high food inflation that had forced them to cut down on the consumption of onion and tomatoes. TO COST 1,293 Non-subsidized LPG cylinder to cost 1,293 in Lucknow To pinch those using more than 12 subsidized cylinders/financial year Third hike in 1 month. since Total increase Dec 1 287 Steep increase due to escalating global price of oil No direct subsidy transfer in UP C entre’s ambitious plan to extend the Direct Benefit Transfer for LPG scheme in 289 districts by January 1 has come a cropper in UP where the enrolment process has only started in one district – Etawah which has also been given a month-long extension till January 31. P3 LPG price hike a blow after food inflation New Delhi: The price of non-subsidized cooking gas (LPG) has been increased by a steep Rs 220 a cylinder. Coming in the last quarter of the financial year, several households would have exhausted their share of subsidized cylinders, resulting in a dent in household budgets at a time when they are just recovering from a bout of high food inflation that had forced them to cut down on the consumption of onion and tomatoes.     Inflation has been identified as a key challenge for the UPA coalition and is said to be one of the key factors behind Congress party’s rout in four of five state elections. But the gas price hike has virtually been forced on oil marketing companies as the Centre is unable to bear higher subsidy burden given its precarious fiscal health. With general elections barely three months away, government is keen on frontloading some tough decisions. The latest increase is the third announced during the past month, following the Rs 63 hike on December 1, which was followed up with a rise of Rs 3.50 a cylinder 10 days later.     State-owned oil companies revise rates of non-subsidized LPG on the 1st of every month, based on the average imported cost and rupee-US dollar rate during the previous month.
UNUSUAL ADVICE Stop eating onions to check prices: SC New Delhi: An advocate’s endeavour to get Supreme Court to issue a directive for the Centre to rein in the rising rates of vegetables like onions on Friday backfired when the apex court suggested that the petitioner should stop consuming the item himself for a few months.     A bench headed by Justice B S Chauhan dismissed the PIL filed by the advocate, who submitted that the Centre had “grossly” failed in controlling the food inflation.     “You stop eating onions for two months and its price would come under control. We cannot entertain such petitions,” the bench told the advocate.     The advocate, Vishnu Pratap Singh, contended that the government was depriving the poorest and weakest sections of society of their right to life and food through its failure to control the prices of essential commodities.     “The Centre has grossly failed to invoke statutory provisions of the Essential Commodities Act, 1955, to control the food inflation and, more precisely, the prices of onions and other basic vegetables, like potatoes and tomatoes, which have been steadily rising due to artificial scarcity created by traders and hoarders,” petitioner had said. AGENCIES
NEWS DIGEST Posco plant gets green clearance The Rs 52,000-crore Posco steel plant in Odisha, which has been mired in controversy for years, has received environment clearance from the Centre. The approval for the project, the largest FDI in India, has come ahead of South Korean President Park Geun Hye’s visit. P 5 Dutt seeks parole extension Actor Sanjay Dutt, whose parole ends on January 21, has filed an application for a 30-day extension, citing his wife Manyata’s illness. Manyata, who underwent a procedure to drain out fluid from her lungs, is suffering from TB. P 6 Exports down to 6-month low Economic woes continue with the IIP contracting by 2.1% in November and export growth decelerating to a six-month low of 3.49%, leading to India Inc pushing the RBI for a rate cut in its credit policy on January 28. P 14 Infy narrows gap with peers Infosys, which has seen some top executives leaving, has raised its dollar revenue growth guidance for this fiscal to 11.5-12%, up from the previous 9-10%, marking a return to near industry average growth and reflecting the success of its decision to focus on large transformation projects. P 13 ‘Don’t eat onions, prices will fall’ Irked by a petition seeking a direction to the government to regulate the prices of onions and other vegetables, the Supreme Court on Friday ticked off the petitioner, telling him to “stop eating onions, so prices will come down”. P 7 
MEN & MORALS Inflation, not corruption, will be the key issue in LS polls GURCHARAN DAS In the last assembly elections, the aam admi complained inconsolably of rising prices. TV clips showed voters quoting the prices of potatoes, onions, and dal. Pundits put it down to the ‘usual election whining’, but more than corruption, inflation turned out to be the reason for Congress’ defeat. Even though it has slowed a bit recently, all political parties are warned — the aam admi is not going to forget the pain of inflation in the coming general election.     Economists have struggled to understand why India’s consumer prices have been rising 10% a year for the past five years when prices in the world have been reasonably steady. Even in poor, emerging economies, prices have risen at half the rate as India’s. Inflation is complex but it has become clear that India’s inflation is the result of the same bad policies that brought down our growth. Huge government spending without commensurate production has meant that too much money has been chasing too few goods.     UPA II put massive funds into villagers’ pockets. Rural wages thus rose an unprecedented 15% a year in the last five years. Farmers received a bonanza — they got high minimum support prices for grains besides fertilizer and energy subsidies plus loan waivers. Rising wages are a good thing when they reflect climbing demand in a prospering economy. To an extent, this is true of India, which experienced a ‘golden age’ of growth and prosperity till 2011. These rising incomes changed the aam family’s food habits — eating fewer cereals and more protein, fruits and vegetables. But escalating rural wages have also been the result of ‘make work’ jobs of NREGA, which did not create productive assets. Had the same money been invested in factories, roads and power plants, prices would not have risen to this extent.     The obvious answer to inflation is to revive economic growth. To its credit, the government has realized its mistake, and is desperately trying to approve projects that have been stuck for years in red and green tape. But investments take time to translate into jobs and growth. There are quicker ways to tame food inflation fortunately. One of them is to scrap ‘agricultural produce marketing committees’ (APMC), which function as wholesaler cartels in mandis rather than protecting small farmers. Like most of our bad economic ideas, this is a hangover from Indira Gandhi’s socialist days.     Freeing wholesale markets will bring competition as traders and farmers are able to buy and sell freely. International retailers will be able to buy directly from farmers, and with their formidable cold-chains, they will also save food from rotting in the fields and mandis. This will result in higher returns to farmers and also lower prices to consumers as supermarkets will pass on the savings from bypassing middlemen. Economists have been urging the scrapping of APMCs for years. Rahul Gandhi has now discovered this idea, and since he has put his weight behind it, it might get implemented in the Congress-ruled states. Powerful local politicians, however, control APMCs — let’s watch if Rahul Gandhi has it in him to take on this powerful vested interest.     The Aam Aadmi Party’s (AAP) first action should have been to scrap the APMC in Azadpur Mandi near Delhi. It would have brought quick relief to consumers by curbing prices of fruits and vegetables. But it did the opposite. AAP scrapped foreign investment in supermarkets, denying aam admi the potential for lower prices. It did not realize that around the world it is the aam admi who shops in supermarkets because of lower prices. Besides, AAP’s aspiring supporters would any day prefer to work in modern supermarkets rather than in kirana stores.     Of our three main political parties, only the Congress seems to have understood that inflation can be controlled by APMC reform and foreign investment in supermarkets. The BJP has chosen the trader against the aam admi and opposes FDI in retail. The AAP’s leadership, oddly enough, does not seem to be in sync with the aspirations of its followers. It is trapped in old ‘povertarian’ ideas of the Old Left which ensured that India remained an underachiever. Given the crucial role that prices will play in the coming election, can the Congress convert its advantage into votes?
RLD, Peace Party and TMC chorus anti-SP chant TIMES NEWS NETWORK Lucknow: On Sunday, three political parties held their rallies in the state. The Rashtriya Lok Dal in its rally held at Shamli district blamed the state government for deteriorating law and order, and a host of other problems, faced by people of the state.     Addressing party workers and audience, RLD chief Ajit Singh blamed the Samajwadi Party government in UP for the Muzaffarnagar riots. Party general secretary and Mathura MP Jayant Chaudhary accused the Uttar Pradesh government of corruption and said the state government is non-serious towards sugarcane farmers of the state. He added that the power scenario in the state has also gone from bad to worse. RLD’s UP unit chief Munna Singh Chauhan said the party will undertake a statewide chakka jaam agitation on February 25.     In Khalilabad, Peace Party president Dr Mohammed Ayub addressed issues pertaining to the most backward classes. Ayub, MLA from Khalilabad, said “most backward classes should be separated from other backward classes and ‘ati-dalits’ from dalits, according to their population in a region. Recommendations of Sachar committee and Rangnath Mishra commission must be implemented at the earliest.”     At the rally organised by the Trinamool Congress, speakers raised the issues of corruption, inflation and the blame game played between the Centre and state government when prices of onions reach Rs 100 per kg. Speaking at the rally, TMC leader and MLA from Mant, Shyam Sundar Sharma, said his party believes a leader must be good heart, and only then can he help the common man.
Rains make vegetables costlier, poor quality Anita Shukla TNN Lucknow: Vegetable prices have registered nearly 50% increase, except in some cases, besides a sharp decline in their quality over the past month.     Intermittent rains recently have resulted in general deterioration in the quality of vegetables, worst affected being potato, peas, spinach and carrot. Waterlogging in fields has caused rotting of root vegetables. Leafy vegetables have been affected by bacterial diseases, said vegetable vendor Raju.     He said there had been a considerable increase in the cost of vegetables in general, but for good quality vegetable one has to shell out 50% more. Most of the vendors have only low quality vegetables because there are very few people who want to pay more.     A housewife, Saraswati, said vegetables have become expensive and poor in quality, so one has to take whatever is available.     Situation in the wholesale market is no better. If after picking and choosing vegetables, vendors buy poor quality stock, wholesellers refuse to take it back. Humidity following rains has caused vegetables packed in sacks to rot by the time they reach the market. The retailers have to accept whatever is available, said another vegetable vendor, Kamal Ahmad.     As for the prices, sharpest rise has been in the case of peas selling at Rs 30 per kg against Rs 20 per kg a few weeks ago. Potatoes selling at Rs 16 per kg a month ago now cost Rs 20 per kg. The price of onions has also increased from Rs 16 per kg to Rs 20 per kg. Vendors feel cost of potato may go up further as standing crops are prone to rotting in waterlogged fields. Cost of carrots has gone up from Rs 15 per kg to Rs 24 per kg and of cauliflower from Rs10 to Rs15 apiece. Cost of brinjal has also gone up from Rs 20 per kg to Rs 40 per kg. But there are some vegetables which have not registered any significant increase in their prices. These include cabbage, pumpkin and ladyfinger.
Mulayam Singh and Narendra Modi look to contest two Lok Sabha seats Provides welcome flexibility     With both Samajwadi Party chief Mulayam Singh Yadav and BJP’s prime ministerial candidate Narendra Modi looking to contest two seats in the coming Lok Sabha elections, questions have been raised regarding this strategy. However, criticism that simultaneously contesting from two constituencies is unethical and makes a mockery of the democratic process is unfair. In fact, before the Representation of People Act, 1951, candidates were free to contest from as many constituencies as they wished. Today, they can only do so from two seats and have to give up one should they win both. This ultimately ensures that each constituency is represented by one legislator alone, leaving little room to evade accountability.     The main reason for allowing such a system is flexibility. India is a big and diverse country. The outcome of an election is decided by several local, regional and national factors. Add to this complicated vote-bank calculations. In such a scenario, for political parties to put up winnable candidates in each constituency is a difficult task. In fact, even good candidates often lose out to intricate electoral arithmetic. Hence, having the flexibility to contest from two seats gives desirable nominees – those who may become able Cabinet ministers – an additional chance to become legislators.     Besides, this also helps counter political feudal lords and their vice-like grip on pocket boroughs. Challengers to long-standing MPs and MLAs feel emboldened if they have another constituency to fall back on. Such flexibility serves to project national leaders too. This is precisely why Modi – hitherto seen as a Gujarat strongman – has been nominated from Varanasi Lok Sabha constituency. Sans the two-seat rule, Modi would have been less inclined to contest from UP to shore up his PM-hopeful credentials. Thus, instead of breeding parochial legislators, flexibility incentivises politicians to step outside their comfort zone, strengthening democracy. One candidate, one seat Renuka Bisht     An actor books dates for one film by sacrificing another. A sportsperson cannot imagine playing different tournaments at the same time. An ordinary citizen accepts she cannot tackle two job interviews simultaneously and forgoes one for the other. But politicians are a class apart. They can contest polls from two seats. They can bag a winner’s crown even if they lose an election. It’s a special kind of insurance plan. And whether they win one seat or two, who’s stuck with the bill for byelections? Taxpayers.     When the price of everything from onions to airline tickets is going up and up, citizens have to accept that elections cannot be any different. But some expenses are quite unjustifiable and very avoidable. Expenditure resulting from politicians simultaneously standing for two seats definitely falls within this category. All political parties abuse this dispensation. It’s about spreading their bets. Big bragging rights are also at stake. In 1999, Sonia Gandhi accented winning the Congress presidency by winning both from Bellary in south India and Amethi in the north. This time around, Narendra Modi looks set to run for the Lok Sabha from both UP and Gujarat, while holding on to his Gujarat legislative assembly seat. Eat cake, have it, want more!     Before Independence, there was no cap on the number of constituencies that candidates could contest. The two-seat cap was an important electoral reform in 1951 and more than six decades later it’s high time to update that reform. Election Commission is also of the view that the law should be amended to restrain candidates from contesting two seats simultaneously. Yes, this would increase the risk factor for politicians but that’s only fair. Why should taxpayers help hedge political bets? Let’s match one person, one vote with one candidate, one seat.
Whoever wins, FM’s post likely to see a fresh face Economy Tops Mindspace Of Voters This Poll Surojit Gupta TNN New Delhi: Price rise, particularly of food items like onion and pulses, has been an election issue in the past. But never has the economy cast such a looming shadow over any election. Jobs have become a huge concern. A large number of voters may not understand the theory of economic growth, but they sense that the slowdown has severely shrunk employment opportunities. That, coupled with inflation, appears to be dominating public mindspace in this Lok Sabha election.     The irony is that regardless of which party comes to office, the next finance minister is likely to be a new face (not that that is necessarily a negative).     Since 1991, when the economic reforms process began, the finance ministers have been Manmohan Singh, P Chidambaram, Pranab Mukherjee, Yashwant Sinha and Jaswant Singh. For one reason or the other, they are all now out of the poll race.     While it is not necessary to win a Lok Sabha election or even be an MP to become a minister, chances are that the new government which assumes office after the general elections may hand over the job to a politician who has never handled such a crucial portfolio before.     So who could be the next finance minister? In the event of an NDA government coming back to power, there is talk that the crucial portfolio may be handed over to Arun Jaitley, who is contesting on a BJP ticket from Amritsar. Jaitley has been a successful minister in the NDA government having handled crucial economic portfolios such as commerce and disinvestment. CUSTODIANS SINCE REFORMS YASHWANT SINHA NOV 10, 1990 - JUNE 21, 1991 MANMOHAN SINGH JUNE 21, 1991 - MAY 16, 1996 JASWANT SINGH MAY 16, 1996 - JUNE 1996 P CHIDAMBARAM JUNE 1, 1996 - APR 21, 1997 INDER KUMAR GUJRAL APR 21, 1997 - MAY 1, 1997 P CHIDAMBARAM MAY 1, 1997 - MARCH 19, 1998 YASHWANT SINHA MARCH 19, 1998 - JULY 1, 2002 JASWANT SINGH JULY 1, 2002 - MAY 22, 2004 P CHIDAMBARAM MAY 22, 2004 - NOV 30, 2008 MANMOHAN SINGH NOV 30, 2008 - JAN 24, 2009 PRANAB MUKHERJEE JAN 24, 2009 - JUNE 26, 2012 MANMOHAN SINGH JUNE 26, 2012 - JULY 31, 2012 P CHIDAMBARAM | JULY 31, 2012 TILL DATE
Onion prices rise about 40% in a week Tushar Pawar TNN Nashik: Brace up for an onion price hike again. Unseasonal rains and hailstorms in Nashik district have pushed up onion prices by about 40% in a week at the country’s largest wholesale onion market, the Lasalgaon Agriculture Produce Market Committee (APMC),     In the district APMCs, the average wholesale onion prices, which were in the range of Rs 575 to Rs 801 a quintal on April 10, rose to Rs 750-Rs 1,011 on Thursday. In the retail market, good quality onions were sold in the range of Rs 12 to 15 a kg.     Speaking to TOI, an official from the Lasalgaon APMC said: “The quality of onions has been damaged due to recent hailstorms and unseasonal rains.”
NEWS DIGEST Delhi LG can revoke assembly status Aam Aadmi Party on Thursday succeeded in getting the Supreme Court to clarify that the Delhi lieutenant governor could revoke the decision to keep the assembly in suspended animation. Guj faces 4,000cr budget deficit Despite claims of a revenue-surplus budget, Gujarat hit a deficit after tax collection fell short by Rs 4,068 crore, against a target of Rs 45,000 crore for 2013-14. P 9 Arthur Road super held for graft The Arthur Road jail superintendent Vasudev Burkule and his deputy, Pradip Pathrikar, were arrested for demanding and accepting a bribe of Rs 40,000 for clearing a candidate in an examination for jailors. P 7 Husain paintings to go on display in UK MF Husain’s final nine paintings, commissioned by steel magnate Lakshmi Mittal, will be displayed at London’s Victoria & Albert Museum this summer. P 12 Iran mom slaps son’s killer, spares his life An Iranian mother spared the life of her son’s convicted murderer with an emotional slap in the face as he awaited execution with the noose around his neck, a report said on Thursday. P 12 DMK MP convicted, to lose RS seat DMK’s T M Selvaganapathy is set to become the first MP from south India to lose his Rajya Sabha post after a CBI court in Chennai convicted him in the ‘cremation shed scam’ case of 1995-96 vintage and sentenced him to two years’ imprisonment on Thursday. P 9 
El Nino doesn’t always cause drought No Need To Panic, Weak Monsoon May Have A Moderate Impact: Study Sidhartha TNN New Delhi:Amid concerns of deficient rains this monsoon, a new study has shown that since 1980, all El Nino years have not resulted in a drought, although all droughts have happened in years of El Nino. In the last 34 years, there were six droughts in El Nino years, while there were six other years that did not convert into droughts, Icrier’s Ashok Gulati and Shweta Saini said in a yet-to-be released study. The analysis will offer comfort to those wary of the adverse effects of weak rains on an already struggling economy.     Although the economists said that farm GDP falls 0.35% with every 1% deficiency from the average rainfall, they added that there is no reason to panic as their model does not point to a very high probability of a drought this year. Several other economists have said that a weak monsoon will only have a moderate impact.     The Icrier study pointed out that in 2000, 2005 and 2009, agriculture GDP rose despite rains being significantly below average. But the study did suggest that the government would do well by preparing in advance. On the positive side, Gulati, who recently stepped down as the chairman of the Commission for Agricultural Costs and Prices, and Saini said that there was sufficient water level in reservoirs and ample foodgrain stock in godowns. The stock of wheat and rice for instance is estimated at over 53 million tones, which is two-and-a-half times the buffer requirement.     Similarly, 85 major reservoirs have more than double the storage level compared to last year or average for last 10 years. Himachal Pradesh, Punjab, Rajasthan, Odisha, West Bengal, Gujarat, Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Karnataka, Kerala, and Tamil Nadu have better storage today than last year, it said.     In terms of preparation, economists suggested that the government should either expand the farm insurance cover or put in place a contingency reserve of Rs 5,000 crore.     “Although at the All-India level a declaration of drought requires more than 10% deficiency compared to LPA (long period average), agricultural production can get impacted significantly even if the overall deficiency is, say, 5-9% over LPA, depending upon the spatial spread of rains,” the report said. WHAT IF RAINS ARE INSUFFICIENT SAVING GRACE Grain stock (Wheat & Rice) | Estimated at 53.5 million tonnes, about 2.5 times the buffer norms Water level | 85 major reservoirs have more storage than last year or 10 years’ average PRESSURE POINTS Cotton | Prices may rise, exports may be affected Edible oil | Prices may go up as Indonesia and Malaysia, major source of imports, may be hit by El Nino ‘Pulses may go onion way’ New Delhi: If El Nino weighs on the monsoon and rains are deficient, the production of pulses is likely to get severely hit and affect the households’ budget the way onion brought tears to the common man, says an Assocham study.     The major pulse-producing states — Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh, which together account for about 80% of the total production — may witness less rainfall, affecting its output and prices. Despite the rise in production in the last three years, domestic demand is likely to continue to be more than the supplies in coming years, it added. AGENCIES
The Monophonic Voice of India Far from the buzz of new media in UP & Bihar, Modi’s message of development seems to have put stars in the eyes of voters Ruchir Sharma     Down the roads and crowded highways of Bihar and Uttar Pradesh, five days and 1,500 kilometres through searing heat we rolled, a motley crew of us following the Indian election, and we found a political star in plain sight. There were two dozen of us and together we spoke with hundreds of voters, only one of whom still supported the ruling Congress Party. One! Perhaps even more surprising, many of these voters had supported Congress in the past, and every one of them had switched loyalty to Narendra Modi. Not to his Bharatiya Janata Party. To Modi.     In a parliamentary system that puts party before personality, Modi has become the first candidate whose personal brand trumped party affiliation at a national level at least since Congress’s Iron Lady, Indira Gandhi, in the early 1970s. In a nation where strong regional identities had often blocked the rise of statelevel leaders to the national stage, Modi has used his post as chief minister in the state of Gujarat to launch his bid for the prime minister’s job. Shattering the provincial and party traditions of Indian politics, Modi thoroughly eclipsed his Congress rival, Indira’s grandson Rahul, a name barely mentioned on our route.     Only a year ago Modi was frontrunner by default in an election defined by disenchantment with Congress, with economic growth slowing and inflation raging after 10 desultory years in power. Modi was still not widely popular or even that well known in many states outside Gujarat, where his record raised equal measures of praise for his economic success and criticism of his alleged complicity in anti-Muslim riots a decade ago. Yet by the final weeks of the campaign, the disillusionment with Congress had given way to a sweeping embrace of Modi. Even in towns of remote Bihar where the lights barely flicker, villagers spoke with awe of how Modi turned the power on 24 hours a day in industrial Gujarat. Most had never been outside their Bihar village, so how could they know?     Ever since the BJP lost the last national election in 2009, Modi has been working toward this breakthrough. No Indian campaign has ever been so carefully calculated, so far in advance. Modi assembled the financing, the team of high-powered PR advisors, the media muscle to make a national name for himself. “This election was just like in America,” a middle-aged farmer named Sriram Tiwari told us in a roadside interview outside the Uttar Pradesh city of Allahabad. “The leader doesn’t have to come to you, you can watch the leader on TV. It is so much easier, you can really hear what they all have to say. And no one is as articulate as Modi, especially in his responses to questions from journalists.”     Modi is a rivetingly blunt speaker, but he is also the Indian political master of new media technologies. At traditional Indian political rallies like those we witnessed in Uttar Pradesh and Bihar, half the crowd shows up only long enough to watch the candidate’s helicopter stir dust storms in the landing field, and those who stay (including those paid to stay) can barely hear the crackling microphone over the din. The new media are much clearer. Since the election of 2009, the share of Indians with TV has risen from 53% to 63%, the number online has risen from 69 to 213 million, the number with smart phones from 3 to 70 million. Membership on Facebook is up from 10 to 100 million, on YouTube from 5 to 60 million, and Modi is all over these platforms and more. After we left Uttar Pradesh, Modi returned in the form of the life-size hologram he has used to project himself before some 1,500 rallies and 15 million voters during the campaign.     The power of these communication tools is magnified, for better or worse, by scale in India. We snaked along roads that follow the Ganges, stopping in various small hamlets around the city of Allahabad, asking locals who they plan to vote for. Almost invariably, faces grim with poverty would light up with a smile, and it had nothing to do with their chosen candidate. It was the sweet light of power, the spectacle the world marvelled over when they spoke of 814 million Indian voters. The ballot is the great leveller, and the poor guard this privilege jealously, divulge their voting intentions only under coaxing—“we’re not from the government, we’re just a bunch of journalists”—and it is only then that they speak of Modi.     Lord, satisfy the hope Modi has unleashed. His political machine has been hammering home the message of how he brought new business, new roads, new jobs and less crime to Gujarat, and now everyone outside Gujarat seems to know all this is true. They see Modi as an efficient strongman who will restore growth, lower the price of onions and, as one voter put it “make the trains run on time.”     Tiwari ticks off the usual gripes against Congress, including corruption, inflation, and crime. The folks he knows around Allahabad are switching to Modi because “the public needs change, and Modi is their guy.” Not far off, in the village of Saidabad, there is no electricity at one in the afternoon when the sun is high and the temperature hits 43 degrees Celsius, and people speak of how Modi will turn the fans back on. Modi hardly discourages this optimism, stealing Congress’s socialist thunder by promising every Indian a cool brick house with a toilet.     Some of the roads along the Ganges are so crowded or just so broken that on our road trip we often average less than 30 kilometres an hour, but so many people living along it are now hopeful that Modi will fill life’s potholes. In the town of Pali, Rakesh Kumar Verma is fed up after winning two masters degrees but ending up underemployed at the age of 42 because “the goons are in control.” Loan officers skim 15% of a one lakh loan for themselves. The bribes required to get even menial jobs make the jobs not worth taking. Verma gets by selling cheap jewellery. But Modi cleaned up corruption in Gujarat, he can handle the goons. My colleagues start joking, every time a window jams or a toilet won’t flush, “Modi will fix it.”     To many voters, though, Modi is more than a repair man. He was once a tea seller in a railway station, but now he is the self-made leader of the world’s largest democracy, a harbinger of disruptive change. In the district of Bhigunia, we crawl along a pontoon bridge over the Ganges to a tiny settlement accessible in no other way. On the far side we meet a young Brahmin, universityeducated and upper caste but not working, because it would be too embarrassing to take a job below his station in a place so small, where his family is well known. Under Modi though, the hope is it will be different. Pathetic job creation under Congress will give way to job growth. The Brahmin can go find work in a city, where he is anonymous. Caste barriers are eroded by urbanization and industrialization.     Travelling these bumpy roads, it becomes clear that the Modi wave did not spread only on modern channels. One high member of the Gandhi clan once allowed that the very poor communicate at a level that “we”, the literate and privileged, don’t understand. Perhaps it was this subaltern frequency that transmitted the Modi sunbeam from the smartphone elite and the TV-watching middle class to the rest of the 814 million. The candidate was relentless, too, showing up on so many stages voters wondered if there was more than one of him, not even counting the holograms. In Bihar we hear him speak in the town of Hajipur and he is as always spellbinding, intimate, hilarious. He says headlines scream in Gujarat if the power goes off for a few minutes, but celebrate in Bihar if the power goes on for a few hours.     Modi emerges as something of an oldfashioned strongman, delivering a multimedia message of modern development. What goes unsaid is equally revealing. Modi and the BJP have been largely silent on flammable foreign policy and sectarian issues, the words “Pakistan” and “Muslims” have fallen from the party lexicon. Asked about how Modi will deal with Muslims, many of whom fear the BJP, the farmer Tiwari cites an interview in which Modi dismissed such questions as “the language of those who want to divide India.” Besides, Tiwari suggests, sectarian strife is common in his part of the world and that in Gujarat there had been no further violence once the scores were settled in 2002.     Modi now seems set to govern all of India, the 150 million Muslims included and there is reason to be cautious. Though the popular vote for the BJP is expected to come in at the highest for any single party in three decades, it is still just around a third of the total vote. Two thirds of India and 90% of Muslims probably did not vote for Modi or BJP.     M o d i h a s promised the moon. In the final weeks he often targeted his promise that “better days are ahead” to the vast population of Indians under the age of 28, including the roughly 100 million who were voting for the first time in this election. The difficulty is that to create enough jobs for all these youths, India needs to create 10 million jobs a year for the next five years, or four times more than it has been creating over the past five years. It will be virtually impossible for Modi to hit the ground running on this challenge, because his first task should be to contain India’s double digit inflation, which means restrained government spending, high interest rates, and job growth remaining weak until inflation is whipped.     What then? It’s easy to imagine jobless, disappointed youths getting angry, and the hardcore Hindu fundamentalists reviving their old accusations that it is Muslims, with their high birth rate, who are to blame for India’s “population bomb” and the unemployment problem it is now creating. In a tense environment, it’s hard to know whether Modi would fuel the tension through innuendo, allow it to fester by remaining silent, or defuse it by trying to quiet the mob. On the road the Modi wave keeps bringing to mind the tale of Turkish leader Recep Tayyip Erdogan, another former street vendor (lemonade, not tea) who emerged from a pious political sect (Islamic, not Hindu) to become a selfmade prime minister much to chagrin of the secular elite. In his early years, Erdogan shelved his social and cultural agenda to focus on stabilizing the inflation ridden economy, and became widely popular. After taking office with 34% vote in 2002 elections, Erdogan was reelected with 50% in 2011. At the height of the boom, Erdogan’s name rang throughout the land, his voice dominated all discussion—echoes of Modi in India today. But then success went to Erdogan’s head, he stretched two terms into three, his autocratic instincts began bubbling to the surface as he pushed an increasingly Islamist social agenda. To stifle the resulting protests, Erdogan rolled out riot police, blamed foreign conspiracies, rallied his pious supporters to counter demonstrations, and recently attempted to ban Twitter, which his opponents are using to organize the anti-Erdogan campaign. One wonders if one day India’s new political messiah may also go the Erdogan way. For now, as in Turkey during Erdogan’s early years, India is focused on Modi’s promise that “better days are ahead.” The writer is head of emerging markets at Morgan Stanley Investment Management and author of ‘Breakout Nations: In Pursuit of the Next Economic Miracles’
